This is simply to make people better and to make them recognize that they don't have to get stuck where they are, but they can change.
Because every day is an opportunity of change.
Schwarzenegger.
Hasta la vista, baby.
We need to get stronger.
We need to get tougher.
We have to be willing to go through hardship.
through suffering, through pain.
So- It could have.
Yeah.
You're absolutely right.
It could have.
The only thing is that I think maybe would help me is that I never really felt that I have arrived, to be honest with you.
Not in bodybuilding.
Not in, I mean, I pretend and I do the big spiel, right? You know, I'm the greatest bodybuilder.
The shmay? The shmay, exactly.
I do all of that, yes.
But I mean, in reality, I feel like when I work, for instance, on a movie, I really don't feel like it's any different than being a plumber.
You know, I go to work, they put all the schmutz on and the makeup, and I'm sitting there.
like an idiot at five in the morning so that I'm ready to eat at the clock.
And then you go out and you do your work, do your scenes.
Then you go and have your lunch.
And, you know, it's like the same.
It's like going to work and then going back home.
I don't see myself as the star.
I just see myself as a worker.
And so when people then say, you're so nice, you eat with the crew.
I feel like I'm the crew.
I'm just one of them, right? We are all trying to make a good movie.
And so it's like I never really feel...
Out there.
Kind of like, even when I was governor, no matter where, yes, I have my moments where I feel like, oh, man, that just shows how great I am and stuff like that.
But the reality settles in right away where I put myself back into place.
And even when I remember where I have to make myself kind of feel like I'm the Mr.
Olympia.
But when I look in the mirror, I see so many flaws.
So many flaws.
And Jesus, your delts are never big enough.
The thighs, oh, come on.
You know, how am I going to fake my way through here? You know, that's the way I talk to myself.
But then when I go out, it says, oh, I'm going to show them today the best body in the world that has ever seen.
I do the spiel.
I do the shmeh.
But I mean, the reality of it is I just always kind of like felt, you know, fortunate that I'm in this situation.
But I don't get like big headed because of it.
Well, I think that even with Muhammad Ali, I'm sure that he had his own moments of reality because he lost.
You know, and I know that when he lost, he knew why he lost.
And, but you know, he was like, he was a showman.
And Muhammad Ali was just an extraordinary showman that had so much joy in his sport, which is extremely important to find joy in all of the torture and hard training.
And, and also to be able to kind of entertain people in that way.
And to have a mind that can remember all this stuff, I mean, his poetry and all this stuff, that he never made a mistake.
It's not like he bubbled away and always had a trip or something like that.
You know, none of that.
So it was just a great, and he had a great vision.
He always saw himself like, you know, that he was done in justice.
And I think that motivated him to eventually get the upper hand of all of that.
And I hung out with him a lot in the 70s.
I traveled around the United States with him.
We went to various different TV studios, did interviews there.
You know, he was always the first going out there and doing his interview.
And we always talked about it, hung out with the same people a lot of times.
He invited me to different events.
He just was really, really good.
I...
You know, a lot of things we don't choose.
I mean, I don't choose how I feel.
I happen to be fortunate that I don't have one ounce of negative thinking about my past.
Not one ounce.
And I don't know why.
You know, it's just not there.
Yeah.
I just have, you know, I remember the tough times, but I also remember very clearly the sweet times, the gentle times that my father showed, that my mother showed, you know, how wonderful they were and how supportive they were in the schools and the sports field, with everything, even though they were not kind of like the American parents.
It's so different.
My parents have never ever watched me in a soccer game, never ever watched me in a basketball game or track and field, shot with championships, traveling throwing championships, anything like this that we did in school, never ever, because no one did.
There was no parent hanging around and saying, oh, let's watch our kids like we do over here.
Yeah, Well, they showed up because my friend, Freddy Gerstle, that I met very early on, invited them.
And he was a very respected kind of a man in town.
I think because he invited them and so they took it seriously.
Oh, this must be something special.
And then when they saw me up there on the stage, I mean, it's just like they couldn't believe it.
You know, even though I have to say my mother sewed for me my bathing suit, because I found some bathing suit was just too big and I wanted to have it cut down.
So she was sewing with the sewing machine the day before the competition.
I told her I'm going to go into a competition and I need a small bathing suit.
And so she was sewing it and I was trying it on for her and it was doing the fitting and all of that stuff.
So it was very sweet of her.
I mean, how many mothers do that? But I mean...
So there's that side, but they just, it was not the style then to go and to watch kids.
The only competition that my parents ever watched was that one competition in Graz and then one competition in Essen in Germany when I won Mr.
Olympia for the third time.
And then right after them, my father passed away.
So I was fortunate that he saw that.
I think that in general, I think what the book is trying to do is.
To say to people, you need to work on yourself.
If you just try to be pampered, and if you're trying to be soft, and if you're trying to be the victim of yourself, you're not going to go anywhere.
We need to get stronger.
We need to get bossier.
We need to get tougher.
We need to not be afraid of failure.
We got to go and do the work.
We got to face adversity.
Adversity breeds character.
The strength and fighting and resistance does not only make the muscle grow, but it makes also your head grow, makes you a stronger person.
We have to be willing to go through hardship.
through suffering, through pain, through crying periods.
All of that stuff, don't shy away from any of that because it just makes you stronger.
And I think today, a lot of times, our youth is so into kind of, oh, let's make him feel good.
Oh, no, let's be more sensitive.
Well, I totally agree with you to be sensitive about things, but I mean, there's also a sweet spot.
Can we go too far? You know, it's like when someone says, well, today I just need to sleep in.
It's that bullshit.
You don't need to sleep in.
This country was not built on sleeping in.
So let's get up in the morning and let's get on that bike and let's do some exercise and don't even think about it.
Don't look at your email or anything like this.
Let's just get going.
Boom, boom, boom.
Let's get going.
Let's start building.
And so that's the idea is just not to be overly soft and overly kind of sensitive.
Everyone is in the victim kind of a thing.
I just don't buy into that.
But you have to understand that every person has to be approached also differently.
It's like the mind is just like the body.
I cannot give you exactly the same training routine that I had because your body is different.
You're a much leaner person.
You need kind of to do maybe less reps.
And what this, you have to have a different diet if you want to bulk up and all this.
So I have to be aware of that.
even within my family, one of my daughters had to be approached differently than my other daughter.
One son had to be approached differently than the other son.
So you have to be sensitive about those kinds of things.
But overall, it was discipline in the house.
You don't turn out that light, I will unscrew those light bulbs and you will be going into a dark room at the age of three and you will be scared.
So you better start learning to turn off those lights.
You have someone else make you bad.
Okay, I'm going to take the mattress and throw it down the balcony.
And then you carry it upstairs and you make your own bed again.
So this is the way that my kids grew up, you know, and there was like, there was crying there.
Or when I burned their shoes, when she left, my daughter left her shoes for the three times in front of the fireplace.
I said the third time it goes in fire.
The third time it did go in the fire, right in front of her and she was crying the whole night.
Yeah, those things happen.
But now she does the same to her daughter.
And now she says, that was great that you did that.
You see what I'm saying? So now my kids were crying on the ski slopes.
I want to go in.
I want to go hot chocolate.
There will be no hot chocolate.
You know, the usual kindergarten cop kind of a thing.
You know, there will be no hot chocolate.
They said, we're going to ski four runs, and then there's a hot chocolate.
They said, not after the first run.
Yeah, but I'm cold.
They said, so am I.
So what? So what? So now let's go be cold and then go skiing.
And I said, the more we ski the bumps and the more we ski the powder, the warmer we get and the more we warm up.
I said, let's get going.
And so now, today, when they come up to Sun Valley with their friends, they get up.
After the dinner with the wine glass, they said, I want to toast daddy because he made us good skiers.
And that's why we're here today.
That's why we enjoy skiing with all of you.
That's the thing.
You got to just kind of figure it out, you know, how to do that in order.
But, you know, it's it's it's it's it's not easy.
I'm not a psychologist.
I'm not an expert in this.
But one thing I know for sure.
I can help anyone to go and be a little bit better.
Right.
And I think that's what we want to ask.
We cannot ask everyone to be a genius, ask everyone to be the world's strongest man and all that stuff, but to be better.
Because when you're better, when you get better, then you feel good.
When we improve, we feel good.
When we have accomplished something, we feel good.
And that then rubs off on everything.
I have really no goal in the arena.
How does that feel? It's just sometimes there's something in us that is so powerful that you have to communicate it.
You know, I remember when January 6th happened.
It just stayed on me, stayed with me.
The thought, and the thought, and the thought.
And it didn't go away.
Then I started writing things down, what was going through my mind.
And it was writing and writing and then sitting in the jacuzzi and some other idea came into my mind and then I wrote it down when I got out and then I was sitting there.
So it was just, it was just, you know, there, that I finally, you know, told my guys, I said, look, I think that we, I feel like I should speak up about that.
I said, maybe it's my responsibility.
Maybe not.
I said, but I feel like it is.
I said, because I'm a Republican.
And I think it is important for people to know that my president is Biden.
There were no shenanigans with that election.
There was no corruption with that election.
There was no one stealing and walking out with suitcases of votes in this election.
None of this is true.
These are lies.
And so the more I thought about it, the more I felt like I should say something.
And so we put together a speech.
It was not thinking more about being an influencer or any of those kind of things.
You know, I was just saying, I want to talk to the American people.
That it became what it became, I had no idea.
That it was covered live for the whole speech on CNN, I had no idea they were going to do that.
That it was covered all over the world, like that even the world cared about January 6th, I did not know.
You know, so those things we don't know.
That all of a sudden, you know, five and a half, six billion people...
I have become aware of this speech.
I said, oh my God, this is like wild.
So then I realized also at the same time that there was a need for that, obviously, to say that.
And so, you know, so then those things come up every so often when I see, you know, a certain prejudice growing and people walking around with Nazi flags and stuff like that.
And I thought, well, maybe I should, you know.
say something about that because so it also has to be tied together organically with me and so with that i said to myself okay i think my dad went through that with the nazi period i can i can speak with authority here of where did they take him what misery did he go through because of that how there are no winners ever amongst the haters and there's always just losers Yeah.
So anyway, so then I was motivated about that.
And then when the Ukrainian war, the Russians unprovoked attacked Ukraine, I felt like, you know, I should speak up because I love Russia.
And I've been there many times and I really care for the Russian people.
What has happened here? I met Gorbachev, wonderful man, and he has realized that they have gone in the wrong direction.
They wanted to straighten it out, couldn't do it.
But in any case, so I felt kind of like, you know, the weightlifters that I met from Russia and the people that I met when we opened up Planet Hollywood in Moscow with wonderful people and partners we had there.
All of this kind of stuff, you know, this is not Russia.
I mean, this is Putin.
And so let's just talk about that here.
And I said, it's what I was trying to accomplish.
Yes.
In the early 90s, when communism fell, I saw a piece in the New York Times.
Where they ripped down a statue of Lenin and it was going on all over the country in government buildings where they ripped down Stalin and Lenin and this and that and various different leaders.
And kind of saying, OK, this past didn't work for us.
Look what happened.
And we want to, you know, kind of reorganize here.
And so.
There was this piece in the New York Times, how they tear down the statues.
So I said to myself, I would like to have one of those.
This is history of them.
There's a revolution kind of, and them tearing down statues.
And Gorbachev saying, you know, this is the time now for change.
And so I got in touch with my weightlifting friends in Russia, in Moscow.
And I said, guys.
You're tearing down all the sculptures.
He says, yeah, yeah, yeah, we must.
This is a different, we have to go in a different direction.
Yeah, I said, but I mean, what are you going to do with the sculptures? Well, we're going to go them and throw them in a dump somewhere, you know, and just melt them.
I said, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa.
He said, don't melt them.
I said, you know, save one for me.
You want one? Yeah.
So, I said, I think this would be an unbelievable history.
To have a sculpture that you guys tore down for me to keep that.
It's unbelievable.
I think it would be fantastic.
I would like to have it.
Okay, let me look into it.
So.
A half year later is the Arnold's Classic Bodybuilding Championships in Columbus, Ohio.
The Russians come every year with the weightlifting team and the bodybuilders and so on.
And the next thing I know is that we are having now to celebrate the after party, the after competition party, big celebration with thousands of people in the hall.
And they roll out this table that was on wheels.
With a covered sculpture.
I didn't even know what was in it.
I didn't even know it was a sculpture.
It's covered.
It could have been a cake from somewhere.
It didn't connect the dots at all at that point.
So the next thing I know is they pulled it.
The guy goes up there, gives a speech, and pulls this off.
And there's Lenin.
And I was like so shocked.
It was in St.
Petersburg at the Department of Agriculture, I think it was called.
And so anyway, so we then shipped it home to Los Angeles.
And there it was out by my swimming pool was now the sculpture of Lennon.
And my wife says, why are we having Lennon here? I say, I love it.
I think it's funny.
I think they have Lennon here.
And so I had it there for a while.
And then the following year, the same guy now rolls out the same table again.
And now he pulls off this cover and it was Stalin.
So now it's a little smaller.
It was not exactly the same size, but a little smaller.
But now I have Stalin.
no.
The story goes on.
The following year after that, it was Khrushchev.
And then it was Andropov.
And then it was Brezhnev.
And then it was Kosygin.
And it went on and on and on like that until Putin.
I have a sculpture of Putin.
That's part of my Russian collection.
Where do you keep all of these? Every single leader that was leading the Soviet Union, I have in my collection.
So I had them all over the swimming pool.
Every one of my...
kind of like natural things where the fence was, there was a column.
So I put them on top of the column.
So then eventually my wife went nuts.
Especially with style and it was a little bit over there, but now I have it in storage.
But in any case, so then I decided, okay, I'm going to bring this one in here because it's really great to have him in the office and to remember him.
then I found this great painting that is in the background of Lenin.
Yeah.
There was a thing in Vienna or somewhere like that.
So anyway, so I thought it was good to have.
That's a great story.
You know, there's a lot of things that we can take responsibility for, and there's a lot of things we can't.
I mean, I don't make that choice.
It just, it makes me happy to be with people.
I'm a people person, so I don't say, you know, I should go to the public gym.
I think it's cooler than staying at home.
And yeah, during COVID, I stayed at home, and I trained in my gym at home.
But I was in pain.
I was in agony.
I need people.
I need to be out with the people.
I like to train with the people.
I'm a company queen.
You know, that's what I call myself because I just love being with company.
I don't like to go to football games by myself.
I don't like to go for dinner by myself.
I don't like to work by myself.
I don't like to go to the gym and work out by myself.
I just love people.
doing it with people and having a good time so that it's just me so what you see is me it's totally organic nothing is programmed or anything like that i just i i just i'm really happy that i can live the life that i really want to live you know that i go to the gym and i want to go to the gym i ride my bike when i want to ride it i ride it to the beach it's through all of the thousands and thousands of people on the portwalk and venice with all the tourists there I drive my bike through it down to Venice Beach where the weightlifting platform is and all that stuff.
So I just go to regular restaurants.
I eat with all the people there at the restaurant where I always eat every morning.
And, you know, I just love that.
I hate when someone makes a reservation for me and I go, let's say, to the Palm restaurant.
They walk in and they say, we have a table in the corner.
We have a table for you reserved in the corner.
I say, I don't want to be in the corner.
I say, I was sent in the corner when I was in school.
You go in the corner and you kneel in the corner.
I say, for punishment.
I say, I don't want to be punished.
I feel like I'm being punished.
You go in the corner.
I say, I want to sit right there in the middle of it.
All these people sit.
What's wrong with that table right over there? If you want to sit right there, I said, yeah.
I said, well, there's a lot of people walking in here.
And I said, it's okay.
I can handle it when someone comes up with my table and talk to them.
So it's, that's, I just, it makes me happy.
Yeah.
Yeah, Yeah, no, you're absolutely right.
But one should not forget that when you start out, You don't have much to give back.
So you first have to build yourself.
And it became clear to me that the more I build myself, and the bigger I become, the more I can give back.
So when I became Mr.
Olympia six times, and Special Olympics called me and said, Could you come? and train our special Olympians.
They're no kids that are intellectually challenged.
They don't have the best coordination.
I have problems doing sports a lot of times, and we like to do a study on what effect weight training would have.
Well, I was called to do that because I was Mr.
Olympia.
I was somebody.
I was the number one authority in bodybuilding.
That's why I was called.
And so if I wouldn't have had that, I wouldn't have been able to inspire those young kids.
There was 10 kids there, and we did this study for three days, and I trained them.
all kinds of great things happened they got motivated and that's what launched then within the national special olympic committee the idea when i then eventually met my mother-in-law uh eunice kennedy shriver who created special olympics i told her about that experience that happened before i met her and um i told her i said i trained this 10 kids and they were really into this power lifting and they loved it.
especially when I gave them the confidence that they can do it.
First, there were some of them that were scared and they were screaming and they were kind of really worried about the weight over their head and all this stuff.
I said, but then eventually we stripped away that fear and we could see the breakthrough and all this.
I think it could be very popular.
She says, why don't you do it in Baltimore? We have a meet coming up.
Let's try it in Baltimore.
So we did it and it was a huge success.
We did it in Washington.
Huge success.
We did it in Miami.
Huge success.
none of the adopted it in the next meeting internationally.
Then it became an international phenomenon.
So I all of a sudden became now, not something that I was bargaining for or shooting for, or that was never my goal, became then the national coach, the world coach for Special Olympics strength training.
Well, that, for me to go around now the country and the world to promote Special Olympics, not just powerlifting, but of course, you know, being...
A celebrity eventually, every day, started doing movies, notice.
I started traveling around to just start talking about equal opportunities.
I started talking about issues about we got to get the Special Olympians also the right to have a job, the right to have health care, the right to have a place to stay and to live.
And there's equal rights, basic equal rights that they don't have.
People are prejudiced.
So I started talking about those issues.
Not even wildest dreams did I ever think about.
That's what I would do in my life.
But I was able to do that because I was a star in movies then and in bodybuilding and so on.
So I think the more I gained of, you know, building myself, the more I was able to give back in a bigger way.
Right.
At the time I was, I campaigned for President Bush in 1988, you know, and I talked to him on Air Force Two about training and about.
the president's council of fitness and about we got to get our kids again back in the schools back to training exercising every day and i was he appointed me to be the chairman of the president's council of fitness so now i'm going around to all 50 states promoting health and fitness in our public schools so this is like one thing to the next happen and that's why i mentioned in my book that everything that i've done uh up until that point and i heard sergeant shriver My father-in-law talked at Yale University at a commencement speech.
He said to the students, break that mirror that you always look at.
Break that mirror that makes you always look at yourself, and you will be able to look beyond that mirror and to see the millions of people that need your help.
You heard me right, that need your help.
Have you ever thought about going out and helping? And I said to myself, That's exactly what's happening to me.
So this was a long answer, but you were right when you said it was an evolution.
So it starts out with me, me, me, and then slowly becomes not just me, me, me, but we, we, we.
Right.
And so this is what happened to me.
And then, as with everything, I have an addictive personality.
I started getting addicted to it, to give something back, and it made me feel good.
And I felt so rich and so good about myself that I was able to have this impact and to help kids to get, you know, in schools to do exercise, special Olympians to train, and to do power lifting, to lift 500 pounds, which they never dreamt of lifting, and to go around and start after-school programs, then eventually run for governor.
It was my dad that said be useful and it was a guy that I grew up with that later on when I was 15 years old we met that helped us with bodybuilding.
with weightlifting.
Freddy Gerstle, that I talked about, who became then a very famous politician in Austria, and he happened to love kids.
And to him, this was the greatest investment.
So even in his political career, he specialized in building sports facilities for kids and everything for kids, kids, kids.
And he paid a lot of attention to us.
He had a son also, and he invited me over to his house for training.
And he always talked about, you know, giving back.
He talked about getting smart.
Just remember, Arnold, don't just train your body, but train also your mind.
Remember what Plato said, you know, sound mind, sound body.
And he always talked about that.
I want you to run around with books underneath your arms and just dumbbells and barbells.
And all of this stuff.
And so all of this influence that I had as a young kid was helpful.
But especially my father always saying, be useful.
I think that one of the things that you learn in sports is that if you just get stuck in your own training routine and not learn from other people, that you will never become a champion.
And so open-mindedness was very important to me.
And so I think, like I said in my book, I learned a lot of my lessons from sports.
And to me, that kind of like, and having people like Freddie Gerstle, that mentor that talked about open-mindedness and learning from others.
And where you start, as you get older, you start thinking about all of those things.
Because he'd become wiser.
First, it doesn't mean anything.
When he told me that this is what the Nazis did, Arnold, they took my brother's head and they smashed it in with a stone.
They stoned him to death.
And I was lucky to be able to escape and blah, blah, blah.
So you hear that it didn't mean anything, you know.
I said, that's really sad.
But then it's those kind of stories as you grow up.
And as you get older, they mean something to you.
And all of a sudden, you find yourself fighting for inclusion and against prejudice.
And you ask yourself, where does that come from, the desire? It comes from stories like that, you know, that you remember from way back when people tell you those kind of things.
So to me, it was always kind of like learning new things and being able to, the more you become a celebrity, to be able to use that celebrity power for something positive, for something good.
And so to me, it was, I learned, the more I opened up my mind, the better it was.
there was a guy by the name of Vince Gironda.
You maybe have heard of him since you're a fitness fanatic yourself.
He had a gym over in the valley, Vince's gym.
And I saw him doing an exercise, a triceps exercise.
And I looked at him and said, what are you doing? He said, this is for the outside tricep that splits the one head from the other.
And I said, to sleep.
It looks like a kind of a Mickey Mouse exercise.
Jesus Christ, it doesn't look like some heavy lift of some sort.
And he says, well, just try it.
So I said to myself, well, the way you try it, the way I tried it in those days was, I would do an exercise, 40 sets of 20 reps.
So I was lying there on the bench, on my back, taking this dumbbell and going like this 20 times.
Then take it over to this side, do the same thing over here, same thing to this arm.
back and forth, back and forth like this.
The next day, this muscle here was just jumping all over the place.
So I realized he was absolutely correct.
I never ever thought of that.
There's actually a specific muscle.
We always know about sculpting your body that you add more chest or more serratus muscles or some obliques or some biceps but that you can actually dissect it to a specific part of the three muscles.
That's why it's called triceps.
the three muscles there, and one separates the bicep from the tricep and makes it appear, not that measurement-wise it's bigger, but makes it appear much larger.
So I was doing that and that exercise from that point on.
And it just, it was, I said to myself, if I wouldn't have listened to him, I would have never learned that exercise.
But I listened to him.
I first said to myself, brushed it off.
I said, Mickey Mouse exercise.
And I said, no, no, no, let's just try it before we.
kind of like come to a conclusion and sure enough so you learn from those kind of experiences and you then apply this rule with everything and so that's why i was always uh rather more hungry for more information more Yeah, exactly.
And so imagine, I talk at great lengths also in the book about how the capital, Sacramento, even though it was a place that I thought the people that worked there had no quality because they ran the state into the ground by 2003.
And we were bankrupt and there was a huge deficit, $30, $40 billion deficit and all of that stuff.
And everybody had blackouts and everyone was unhappy.
But when I got there, I realized that there's a lot of things that I can learn because there's so many issues, policy issues that I'm not aware of.
And so it actually became kind of the greatest university for me.
Every day I was learning.
Imagine you're sitting there and all of a sudden the nurses come in, the nurses' union, and they talk about the patient-nurses ratio.
I've never even heard of that.
I said, what are they talking about? So they were explaining that it's right now six to one.
But, you know, one nurse cannot take care of six patients, especially if you have to lift a patient because they just had surgery and you have to lift them and help them up to get to the bathroom.
and it was a One nurse alone cannot do that, except if you have a powerlifting champion is a nurse or something like that.
That's not the case in every hospital.
So they were explaining that and all of a sudden they said, oh my God, this is like I never thought about that.
That is really interesting and fascinating thing.
So if we have the budget, we should actually do something about that.
The next meeting an hour later, the prison guards come in and they talk about the overtime, that they're tired.
because they don't have enough people working in those prisons.
And that the system is meant for 100,000 prisons, but at that point we had 170,000 prisoners.
So we are overcrowded, overloaded.
I had no idea about that.
So I learned, and then after the meeting, I got my briefings of what are the options that we can do about it.
And then the teachers came, and then law enforcement came, and so all day long, every day was a learning experience.
To me, the things that I learned in Sacramento was just staggering.
And so I just felt like not only was I happy that I was able to serve 40 million people and be a public servant, be the governor.
But also I became aware of how complicated issues are and how complicated they can be and how much thinking it takes and how much listening that it takes to bring all of the different ideas together to come up with a good conclusion to those kind of issues and problems.
Well, interestingly enough, Even my wife, and she knew me really well, she said after I won, she says, now I'm starting to get concerned.
But I mean, it's like, I said, what are you concerned about? We won.
She says, well, that seems to me is more up your alley.
You found an enemy.
You go after him with vengeance, like you do in bodybuilding and in acting and all this kind of stuff.
I said, you go after them and it's like a competition.
So I get that.
So you were really good at that.
And you could shift gears and into politics.
And you could paint this perfect picture of California when you run it and all that stuff.
So I said, but now you have to do policy.
Politics is now being put aside.
You have to do policy.
So I don't know how many hours you can actually sit there and listen to this most boring stuff.
That is really subtle stuff that you maybe, it's not your personality.
And so she was questioning it.
And so as time went on, she said to me, she said, I can't believe that you actually like this stuff.
Because I don't even like it.
She said to me, I don't even like it.
But there you sit for hours and hours and then you have follow up questions.
Then you meet people at night after.
hours still to learn more about it she says i don't understand it i said i somehow you know i just love the idea of solving those problems and trying to figure out why is it that in austria everyone is insured and in california the richest state in the union not everyone is insured What's going on here? I mean, can we not create a system that is similar to the one in Austria, but with the private sector involved and not government running the whole thing? There must be a way.
So we started going on and started tackling this very complicated issue out of nowhere.
No one asked me to do that.
Just trying to figure out how do we create healthcare in California for everyone and be the first state kind of like along with Massachusetts.
that has healthcare reform and where everyone is insured.
And so it's just my curiosity was just there.
And I asked myself questions about education.
Why is it that our education is slipping? Why are our kids not testing as well? Why is their reading ability less than it was 10 years ago? So you get interested in it because only when you understand it and only when you hear the various different opinions, something from the way right, To the way left, you need to hear all this.
That's why I never looked at anyone as the enemy when I was governor.
I looked at the Democrats just as like partners as I did with the Republicans.
That they agree with sometimes, they disagree with other times and stuff like that, but they're...
I always felt kind of you have to all work together because together we can figure out the sweet spot.
And he says this, he says this, let's figure out the sweet spot where we can, you know, have something of both of those sides come together here.
And so that's the way I try to solve the problems.
And I got fascinated by all these details.
First of all, let me tell you that I did not experience any of that whenever I went to Washington.
I mean, they all talk about it, but every president after Clinton, Clinton put $1.3 billion into the 21st century money, which is for after-school programs.
And after that every president wanted to take it out of the budget.
So since I was like the kind of the big deal in the after school program movement.
They asked me, the National Afterschool Program Association asked me to go and help them lobby in Washington.
So we went back there to lobby the Bush administration.
And everyone's talking about, you're going to bring them together.
They fight over that, you know, the Republicans want to take it out and the Democrats want to keep it in and blah, blah, blah.
And I asked them, I said, I found friends and Californians and I said, can you help me? Bring three senators together from the Democrats and three from the Republicans.
And to talk about after-school programs, I want to just talk to them, have a meeting.
And they did.
And the same was in the House.
They got from, you know, Congress people, men and women, they got together, a whole bunch of them, Democrats and Republicans, and they met with them.
I presented my case, told them how important it is to keep these after-school programs, why it was wise, showed them the statistics and the studies that, where they said for every dollar we spend on an after-school program, we save three to six dollars down the line, and blah blah blah.
They all shook hands that when the bill comes up, and when the debate comes up, that they will fight, and they will tell their colleagues.
to also fight to keep it in the budget.
I walked away and I said, for a place that is supposed to be so split, and they're fighting all the time, I didn't see that fight.
Not in the Senate, not in the House.
We then went back in the Obama administration.
He wanted to take out the money.
We went back again, got again a team together, totally different people now.
Again, Democrats and Republicans worked together, and we kept it in.
So every single time a president took it out, every time I went back there, I did not see that the Democrats and the Republicans didn't want to work together.
I begged them.
To work together for the sake of the kids.
I said, I'm a Republican.
I said, but this has nothing to do with Republican or Democrat.
There's Democratic kids and Republican kids.
I said, yes, the Republicans say that this is like the government is babysitting and all that stuff.
I understand that.
I totally agree with you.
But when it comes to being out on the streets and...
Being in reality, it doesn't work that way because 80% of the kids come from homes where both parents are working.
So therefore there couldn't be anyone at home.
And they both, with wide eyes, the first time they really heard about someone talking passionately.
And they voted for it and they kept it in the budget.
And even still today, it's in a budget.
So no, I'm just saying it needs an approach where you don't villainize.
I didn't go in there to villainize the Democrats as a Republican.
I says, we Republicans here, they're sitting, we have the answer to that.
But you guys are always voting no on this shit.
So no, it was not that approach.
So it's the approach that you have to take.
And I'm talking about, and you ask about leadership, it needs the kind of leadership that has the energy to not worry so much about a specific policy, but to first bring the team together.
This is what someone has to do in Washington.
Do those members.
Rally them together.
Yes, there will be different ways of thinking and all this stuff, but you've got to rally them together.
Here's why.
And make the case of where America needs to go and what we need to accomplish from immigration reform to health care reform to getting rid of the debt, getting rid of the debt deficit that we have, and to solve and to build infrastructure in order to talk about this, and to have a strong military that can stand up to the Chinese and to the Russians and to the whole world.
And that's all we can do with Democrats and Republicans together.
We cannot do it alone.
Republicans cannot do it alone.
Then you have a total fuck up, where there's some executive order like they've done.
And then Biden runs off with his executive orders, which the next president wipes out again.
It's bogus.
The only thing that sticks is if Democrats and Republicans come together and they meet in the middle and that they answer to the people rather than the special interests.
And so you need someone that rallies them up.
And that's what I'm talking about.
That's what it needs because I was back there.
With my friend Kevin McCarthy, he asked me to talk to his environmentalists.
Now, of course, you will laugh because they're Republicans.
You say, where are the environmentalists? Well, there are.
They maybe don't buy into this climate change.
So you don't talk about climate change to those guys.
You talk to them about pollution.
Because no one can deny pollution.
Every Republican I've talked to, I said, you love pollution.
They said, no, are you kidding me? I said, you want to fight pollution? Of course.
We want to get rid of pollution.
I said, but then we have to get rid of oil and all of this stuff and just build more nuclear plants and more renewable energy.
Yeah, I'm on board with that.
So it's the way you approach it.
You have to find a way in.
And there's people that are supposed to be the smart people.
They don't get it.
They keep asking.
How are you telling this story? That's what it is.
It's communicating because we in California.
We accomplished all of those environmental laws because we communicated with the people the right way.
When we said to the people when it's a hot day, don't put the thermostat at 68, put it on 74.
And they were helpful.
During my administration there was no blackout.
The blackouts were in the previous administration of the blackouts.
So we communicated with the people, they were on our side.
And we said to them, and we have to build renewable, we have now 19% renewable.
By the time I'm finished, I'm going to have 50% renewable.
There was no one saying no or anything like this because they realized that's where we need to go.
And when the oil companies and the coal companies tried to derail us, we fought them with the help of the American Lung Association to show to the people of California what happens if we keep using oil.
That the kids in the Central Valley and all over California are getting asthma at the age of three.
and uh Very, very sick and they're dying.
Is that what we want to do with our kids? And they said, oh my God, I didn't know that.
Instead of talking about climate change, 20 years from now, something like that, you and I believe in it, but the majority of people don't understand what it means.
So therefore, let's talk about pollution, like Ronald Reagan.
Ronald Reagan established the Air Resources Board in California that actually makes every law that we pass become a reality.
So if I say there is a law that is 50% reduction of fossil fuels, they make it happen.
So we said 25% in 10 years, they made it happen.
So this is what Ronald Reagan established under the auspices of we got to fight pollution.
He didn't talk about climate change.
You know, so this is why I say that it's just that we have to sell.
We have to communicate.
We have to include people.
We have to bring them in.
We have to explain it to them.
And not everyone talking in a different direction.
And, you know, Biden starts his speech.
He says, today I want to talk to you about climate.
I said, but what? Wouldn't it be much better today? I want to talk to you about how we can get rid of pollution.
Hit the nail on the head.
You know, so this is what I'm talking about.
I think that's what, when we talk about leadership, that's what we need in Washington now is just to bring people together, communicate the right way, not step on someone's toe and make them scream.
No, just let's, let's figure out things that we can do together.
When I went to Sacramento, the first thing we did was we've tried to figure out.
what we can do together, and then we're worried about the more difficult stuff that we are in different directions and stuff like that.
Well, I got involved because of Jim Cameron and the other people that were involved.
And they asked me if I wanted to talk about it because they knew that I have mentioned it to Jim Cameron in the past.
that I have cut back on my meat intake because in the medical profession, it's very clear that you get away with this shit for so long and then eventually it starts backfiring.
And so they thought that I'm at an age now where I should just cut back because my cholesterol level should come down a little bit and blood pressure and all that.
And that's exactly what I did.
You know, so I started...
Cutting out, so my diet is pretty much, I would, if I put the percentage on it, I'm pretty good at that.
I would say around 70%.
I cut down my meat intake.
And the other 30% is on it because of my, every so often, once a month, maybe I make a steak at home.
When we watch the UFC fights, it somehow fits together with all the meat up on the screen.
Yeah.
Even though there is a lot of UFC fighters out there that are also vegetable-based.
But in any case, it's someone who fits together and they like to do it.
It's just the process also to actually barbecue.
So this is why I say 30% not and 70% cut down.
Jim had a big impact on me.
In many ways.
She made a big impact on me because he not only confirmed...
What I told him about health-wise, how much better it is health-wise, but he confirmed that.
But he also said, and don't forget, Arnold, that 25 or 28% of all the pollution comes from...
raising livestock and he says if we just would cut that out we would have much less pollution so from an environmental point of view it's better and from a you know personal point of view health-wise so it's healthier for your body and it's healthier for your for our earth and so that was his message and so jim has never that i'm aware of ever said anything to me about anything That wasn't true.
When I was governor and I went on, as we usually go, on our motorcycle rides, and we were sitting over there at the rock store, and he said, he says, do you want to bring out the reverse metering? He says, pay attention to that.
I found out when I went to Sacramento, yes, sure enough, that if someone...
Put solar on their building, let's say for a huge warehouse, and you produce so much electricity because of all this solar that you cover the whole top of the warehouse, that you have spare electricity that you want to send it back to the grid so other people can use it.
And you get paid for it or get credit for it from the power companies.
The power companies just doesn't want that.
they want to produce their own.
which means more fossil fuels and more damage to our earth.
So I then started fighting and started really working in that direction so that they do accept reverse metering.
So it's things like that that no one would even know what Jim Cameron is talking about.
And I immediately picked up on it, but it just shows you also how...
Smart he is.
I mean, especially with technological things and technology and with little details.
And he reads a lot and all that stuff.
Just so experienced.
So, you know, he was always a great guy to talk to and I always learned from him a lot.
I mean, the other day he came to me.
Oh, what day? The other month he came to me and he said, you know, I had this stomach problem.
and uh The doctor says, just don't eat for a few days.
And I said, okay.
So he said, then eat for a few days.
So, you know, the normal wisdom would tell us we run out of energy.
He says, would you believe that I had more energy on the set? He says, and as soon as I ate my first meal, he says, my energy dropped.
He says, of course, eventually we have to eat.
We can't live without food.
He says, but...
The bottom line is that eating lunch when you're on a set does not make you become more energetic.
It robs you of energy because the blood all rushes in there and you get tired.
And he says that's why we have French hours on a set, which means you can eat throughout the day, but there was no more lunch break because this is a waste of two hours of people's performance.
And he's right.
He's absolutely right.
When I don't eat in the morning, I go to the gym, I work out, and I don't have breakfast, and I think like this, comes 12 o'clock or 1 o'clock when I do something, I'm so energetic.
But as soon as you eat at 9 o'clock after my workout and after my bike ride, I go home and I sit down and I start reading something like this, I kind of like doze off, right? It's amazing.
So again, he was right.
So I just think that so many things that he has taught me and told me, Jim was always right.
No, no, you can.
I know what you're saying, but it is interesting how sometimes people listen to you in an interview or they talk to you in person.
And there's something you say, maybe not even intentionally, where they say, that's what did it.
That's what triggered something in me that I want to go now and set the goal for myself and do X, Y and Z.
So it can be the artist thing.
I myself get motivated a lot of times when I watch something by coincidence or watch a documentary or I hear something.
It triggers something and then it motivates you to go in a certain direction.
So I think to disregard that, it would be a mistake.
I think that we have to do everything that we can.
And since I, by accident, fell into this thing here, becoming a motivational speaker, because 10 years ago...
Totally accident.
10 years ago when I was doing, or more than that...
15 years ago, when I was doing a commencement speech at USC and they talked about just to motivate the kids when they graduate.
Here's my six inner points, my six rules to success.
From that point on, people kept asking me, why don't you do a book? Why don't you do a book? Why don't you do a book? And I just said, I'm not, that's not the business I'm in.
But then all of a sudden, people that I got in the speaker circuit, you know, the presidents usually on, or ex-presidents, I should say.
And all of a sudden, I'm traveling around and I'm doing speeches with Clinton, some in Africa, and with various different leaders.
And everyone is asking me to do a motivational speech, not to talk about policy, not about the environment, not about...
by governorship or anything or by bodybuilding.
No, a motivational speech.
They want to have the six rules or the seven rules or the 10 rules, whatever it takes.
They want to know that.
And they always say, look, we're having 5,000 people from real estate there.
Pump them up.
We got to get more sales and blah, blah.
And so that's all of a sudden I fell into this groove of kind of where people say, This is so motivational what you're saying.
This is so great.
This is exactly what we needed through a book.
And then finally I did the book.
I think it all feels good.
You know, but I mean, it's also we change.
I'm a different person sitting here today than I was when I was 20 years old and I won my first Mr.
Universe contest.
You can imagine.
So to me, that was the most important thing in my life.
This was like unbelievable.
But then came a day where I stood on that stage and I won Mr.
Olympia, even a bigger title than Mr.
Universe.
It didn't mean anything.
I said, this guy's that I just beat.
They would be much happier with the title than I am.
So I'm out of here.
And that was it.
I quit.
And I went into acting.
So then all of a sudden, that becomes the most important thing, to go and to ring up a big box office and to have a successful movie, to go from action to comedy and from comedy to action, and to this and that and to all those kind of things.
That becomes the most important thing.
But then in 2003, when I finished my promotion tour for Terminator 3, and they had the recall election here, I said to myself, This is what I should do.
I should run for governor.
What the hell is this? This isn't the same thing.
Am I going to go now to terminate a 4 and 16 and 20 and Conan 14 or something? Is that what life is about? There must be more than that.
So all of a sudden you start looking for what I call the BBD, the bigger and better deal.
You start looking for something more spicy, that's more risky.
And that it is bigger for me.
And to me, I said, politics, that's something that is a new challenge.
That could be really great.
And I stepped into that arena.
So we change and we change.
And so what was one time, to me, the most important thing and the most exciting thing, you know, today is not.
And so this is now exciting, to be able to motivate people to be better.
To go and to fight for the environment and to, you know, promote democracy and to terminate gerrymandering and all this kind of issues to run the Schwarzenegger Institute and to make students, you know, kind of learn firsthand of what it's about to become a leader and all that stuff at the university.
So those are the kind of things today that mean something to me.
it's an evolution.
As I get older and as I get wiser and as I get better and smarter and all of that stuff, things change.
No, no.
You know, this is simply to make people better and to make them recognize that they don't have to get stuck where they are, but they can change.
Because every day...
It's an opportunity of change.
And so I want them to look at this book and just say, maybe there's something in there that will motivate me to change and to get better, to improve myself.
I don't have to get stuck in this.
I can shoot for big goals.
I want people to be aware of it, that you don't have to shoot for little goals, but you can shoot for big goals, that it is just as difficult to shoot for a little goal than to shoot for a big goal.
And I want them to know that they shouldn't be afraid of failure, that this comes naturally in life.
There will be failure and there will be successes.
The important thing is that we learn from that, but not to be frozen and to fear that.
I want them to know that they have to create a vision of where they want to go.
Without a vision, there is just nowhere to go.
It's just the way it is in life.
You would just wander around without a mission, without the joy of chasing something, how much fun it is to chase something.
So I want them to learn those basic lessons.
that makes you just more successful and better.
Keep up all your athletic activities.
I'm trying to.
Jesus, I mean, it's like amazing.
The lower back.
The lower back.
The guy that can at any given time.
Walk from my office over to the beach and swim to Hawaii.
No, I wish.
How many people can do that? I wish, my friend.
That's unbelievable.
Anyway, Keep up the good work, okay? Appreciate it.
Thank you.
Namaste.