So where do you work out of? Tennessee.
That's a growing city now, isn't it? Right.
It's known for its country music, right? Yeah.
I mean, that's when that's growing up.
Growing up was kind of rock and roll, you know, the 50s rock and roll.
Austria, yeah.
I was in Austria until I was 19.
And so we were, there was a program that was called Hit Parade.
And the hit Parade.
No, no.
We didn't have television.
So we just had the radio at home.
But I had then bought, I was like 15, and I just bought my first transistor radio.
In a little plastic box, right? And I paid off like 50 shilling a month until it was paid off a year later.
But then...
That always took down to the lake where I grew up.
We were sitting around the boys from a village, and we were listening to this hit parade.
It was from 7 to 8 at night on Wednesdays.
And there was like Little Richard and Chuck Berry and all of those guys that were big in the 50s and 60s.
And so I grew up with that.
And that's why I have that station in my radio, 50s, at all times.
I just love it, right? Then when I came over here, I became aware of a little bit of the country western kind of music.
I never afforded a concert.
Are you kidding me? I had no money.
But I mean, when I came over here, I then became aware of the country western songs, especially Johnny Cash.
He did a television show, a weekly television show, and it was great, great music.
And so I fell in love with that.
And then friends of mine here in America then took me to concerts.
You know, it was like a jazz concert or a country western concert and all of this stuff.
And so that's when I started really getting into it.
But, I mean, I loved the music.
But when you grow up in Austria, most of the stuff that you hear is really Austrian music.
You know, the Ompadala, Ompadala, and all this kind of thing.
Is it beautiful music? Beautiful music, but I mean, that's what you hear on public radio and public television also.
That's what you see.
And you see operas.
And you hear concerts.
My father himself was a musician.
He played six instruments.
six instruments.
All kind of like flugelhorn, trumpet, saxophone, clarinet, all of the stuff like that.
A lot of traditional music he would play? Yeah, very traditional because he was...
the conductor of the Chantemarie music, which is the police, the country police, like the sheriffs.
Chantemarie is a French word, a gendarme.
And so he was a gendarme, he was a police officer.
And so he played in that Chantemarie music.
He practiced at home.
While I was training, I remember.
I was doing my workouts and he would be standing, the window would be open up at our house and he would be kind of playing out to the window, out the window.
And there was a kid that was my age that lived 150 yards away from us.
It was one of my best friends.
And he also learned how to play the trumpet at the age of like 13 or 14.
So he would play over there and then my dad would play over here and they were going back and forth like that.
So it was really fun.
but I never, for some reason or the other, my dad always wanted me to get into music.
Not as a professional, but I mean- Did you try it at all? Yeah, I tried it.
It just didn't work.
What instrument? Well, he tried with trumpet, obviously.
Then he thought that he can seduce me kind of into the music because I liked Elvis.
So he said, well, why don't you learn how to play the guitar? I don't play the guitar.
He says, but there's a farmer that is 100 yards up the road.
He plays the guitar and he can teach.
He's also a teacher.
And so I would go to him.
But it just, you know, I just could see right away that that was not meant for me.
i was rebellious in the way because i mean think about it soccer and track and field they were kind of like the in sports But when I was exposed to weightlifting and to powerlifting and to bodybuilding, I fell in love with that.
And also because my heroes like Reg Park and Steve Reeves, they were doing Hercules movies, and I just started looking at those movies, right? And so I said, I want to be like that.
I don't want to be a top soccer player.
I want to be like that.
I want to have the muscles like that, and I want to get into movies like that.
And that all of a sudden became...
my dream.
Yeah.
So I was fixated.
I was like, kind of like concentrating that I kind of put visually my head on Reg Park's body.
And I said, there was a picture, a famous picture where he won the Mr.
Universe contest in London in 1951.
And when I saw that picture, it was like him holding the trophy.
and flexing his bicep.
And then I said to myself, can you imagine if this is me? I'm going to make this me.
And so that's what I was training for.
So my parents thought it was kind of, what is that all about? Where did that come from? And the whole neighborhood was kind of like wondering, what is this guy doing training every day, two hours, three hours a day? I came home, and instead of having lunch, I would put my sit-up board up on the kitchen table.
And I would be doing sit-ups, 500 sit-ups during lunch.
So you were addicted to it.
Totally, totally addicted.
Because I was driven by my vision.
It was always there.
Even when I was in school, I would sometimes just wander off when the teacher was teaching out there, writing up something on the blackboard.
And I would be looking at that, and then all of a sudden, he could see that I was just kind of like staring off.
And then all of a sudden, he threw a chalk.
at my head and I look back again and he says, Arnold, I'm up here.
I mean, I know you're looking at the beautiful trees out there, they're more beautiful maybe than me, but you got to listen to what I'm saying here.
So I noticed I was always kind of drifting off and visualizing my dreams, always visualizing my dreams, being on that stage in the Mr.
Universe contest, doing maybe Hercules movies, going to America.
and all of that.
So it was very different.
So that was not the norm.
So I did step out of the norm.
Because everyone else was talking about, oh, I'm going to go and get a job with the government because I want to make sure that I collect my pension when I was 65.
I had no interest in any of that pension.
I mean, what are we talking about now? At the age of 18, we start talking about pensions.
I mean, it's crazy, right? But that's the European way.
Everyone looks for stability, especially in those times.
where government was really ruling.
So then that's also, I think, an explanation of why when they came over here to America in 1968 and they saw Hubert Humphrey and Nixon campaigning.
Hubert Humphrey, who is Hubert Humphrey? He was the vice president under Johnson.
And so he was campaigning to become...
Well, Johnson was after Kennedy.
Then Hubert Humphrey was his vice president.
So he was running for president.
And so it was really interesting when I listened to the debates and I didn't understand.
maybe three quarter of it, but I had a friend that spoke German and he translated for me.
And when I heard of what Nixon said, it was so opposite of what I grew up with, which I didn't like.
The government was kind of in charge of everything.
In Austria, exactly.
And so it was in Germany and in all those countries over there in Europe.
Socialism was the system that I grew up in.
So when...
When Nixon spoke, I felt like, wow, get government off your back.
That sounds great.
Wow.
And lowering the taxes.
Strong military.
Strong police force.
Strong this, strong that.
And a strong economy.
Let the people be free.
Let them shop all around the world.
And blah, blah, blah.
I said to myself, this is like unbelievable.
And then when Humphrey spoke.
It was like I was back in Austria.
so then I said to myself, what are the parties here? Because I didn't understand really the parties yet.
Well, I said government is the solution.
We all know that the government is not the solution.
I mean, it's like the free enterprise, the economy and all this.
You got to let people be free and not be controlled by government.
Government is good.
But you have to find kind of the middle ground of all this stuff.
And you become a vegetable.
Yeah.
Because they create the safety net, then you don't have the will to really kind of make it on your own.
So the big advantage of coming to America was that there was no safety net.
So I was on my own.
Yeah.
So I had to get really creative.
Okay, how can I go and go to school and educate myself? How can I go and get more English classes? How can I go to Santa Monica City College and at the same time work and at the same time train five hours a day and do all of those kinds of things? So this is, but it was up to me now to be successful, not up to the government.
Oh, I like that.
So the government was providing the opportunities and orders, the structure, but that is what I enjoyed.
And so this is why I became kind of like a Nixon Republican and people always were kind of like.
Especially in California, which is a much more liberal state.
Like, how can you be a Republican? So I really enjoyed it.
Nixon, of course, came from California.
Well, remember, I started saying this when I was 10.
Yeah, exactly.
I saw a documentary, a black and white documentary.
In the school, they showed always those films with this eight millimeters, whatever, films on the little screen.
And like I said, television was not the common thing at that time in Austria.
So we didn't grow up with that.
And but they showed the film and I saw a documentary about America.
Now I see the Empire State Building.
I said, wait a minute.
This building is like, you know, a hundred times.
taller than any of the buildings in Graz, where I grew up, right, in Austria.
And then I saw the Golden Gate Bridge.
Then I saw the Pacific Coast Highway.
I saw all of these kind of, you know, great, great things.
I saw the six-lane highways.
I saw the big Cadillacs, you know, with the big fins sticking out, you know.
The ladies, too.
So I said to myself, and then we had all these little kind of cars, and then Muscle Beach, and all of this stuff that did Hollywood.
I said to myself, I've got to go to America.
I've got to go to America.
This Austria is not the place.
It was almost kind of like that my gene was over here.
You know, so it kind of, I gravitated towards America.
Not that I hated Austria, but I just wanted to leave and go do something different.
So my parents always saw me as being different.
So it was not a surprise to them that I wanted to go as soon as I was through with high school and trade school, that I want to go into the military.
So I went in the military because after you go and serve in the military, then you can get your passport and you can travel.
That's right, No, I don't think it's different now.
Everything is different because everything has changed.
He was in the military.
Was he older than you or younger? He was a year older.
So he was a year Meinhardt. Meinhardt, yeah, exactly.
So he was a year earlier, but he passed away, as you know.
I didn't know it.
Yeah, at the age of 24.
Oh, I didn't know that.
Yeah, it was like a drunk driver.
That's him right there? Yeah.
No, this is Franz Dichinger.
He was my training partner in Munich.
So after the army, the Austrian army, I immediately left to go to Munich.
Because I got an offer, because now, in the meantime, I became the European champion in bodybuilding in the junior division.
Okay, so you go to the military.
So I became this, while I was in the military, I won this title, Best Built Man of Europe, Junior.
God.
And I was 18 years old.
So now I get this offer in Munich, it's the biggest gym, to go and become a trainer.
So I said to myself, okay, I'm going to serve out my term here, get out of here a year later, and then I go to Munich.
and I become a trainer there.
Now, then I can train anytime, 24 hours a day, because I actually lived in the gym.
So I could get up, literally, if I wake up at three in the morning, and, you know, I can, let's say, I can fall back to sleep, I go out to the gym.
How did you live in there? Exactly.
It was a little room.
It was from here to there, where you sit and a bed, and just a little kind of a thing with a cabinet with drawers.
I put my stuff in, that was it.
That was it.
And then I walked out of it.
It used to be an office there for the gym.
And I just moved in there because I had no money.
so I was in heaven.
Are you kidding me? I mean, I went out there, turned on the lights, and I was posing with all the overhead lights.
Notice I was posing in the mirror all the time.
At night I would wake up and I would go out there posing and stuff like that.
So I was like, you know, very intense.
Yeah.
And very passionate about.
bodybuilding and perfecting my body and going to london to that very same contest that reg park won the mr universe and they did that very same year when i went down to munich 1966 i became now mr europe literally two months later and then best buildman of europe and then i went to the mr universe contest with the age of 19.
i was the youngest competitor and i came second and where was that held it was in london the same stage as reg park so you still hadn't made it to the us yet No, no, not yet.
No, he was not interested.
He was much more, I think, academic, I would say.
Because he read a lot and he studied a lot.
He was really good in school.
I was not that good in school.
Did you guys get along pretty well? That's him, yeah.
That's Meinhardt.
Meinhardt, yeah.
Well, he was different than me, but we did hang out together.
He did come to the gym every so often and he worked out with me, but he was not into it.
He wasn't passionate.
He is naturally, he had a better body than I had.
Oh, really? Yeah, he had a really V-shaped body, had wide shoulders, a very, very small waist.
God, I know.
But that's, I think.
What is interesting about it is that you struggle much more in the beginning and to catch up.
And then all of a sudden, you know, you see your own potential.
You know, you don't see it in the beginning.
But then, I mean, I think it was like going to the gym was my first time where I got compliments.
Because my parents weren't into that.
It was the Austrian kind of upbringing, kind of everything, they correct everything.
The grades are no good.
And to soccer, why didn't you kick the ball? You were like 10 yards away from the goal.
You didn't kick it in.
You tripped over the wall.
I mean, what the? Come on, Arnold.
It was always some kind of a complaint.
Always trying to correct you.
Exactly.
That's right.
Yeah.
It was always a complaint.
And then if you made a mistake, you get smacked and stuff like that.
So it was that kind of upbringing.
But it was very helpful to me because it actually gave me the motivation to leave Austria.
Yes, but also at the same time, even though it is a sport that you are on your own, but in the end, you still rely on your training partners.
I was very fortunate always that I had the mentality of being able to attract the best training partners.
So I had guys that were as hungry as I was, because that's the important thing.
If you have someone that is not as hungry, then it doesn't really mean anything.
If you have someone that competes with you, that counts out the reps, then he wants to do an extra two reps more than you do, and you get up to weight and all this stuff.
So I always had good training about this.
So I'm a big believer in that we really can't do anything by ourselves.
That's why we say, don't call me a self-made man, because I'm a product of a lot, a lot of help.
If it is in bodybuilding.
or just, I mean, think about Joe Weider after winning two Mr.
Universe titles in London.
I met Mr.
Universe the following year, 1968, the professional Mr.
Universe.
So I was like the youngest Mr.
Universe ever.
That's right.
Okay.
1966.
And you were 20 years old.
1967, I was 20 years old.
Wow.
And I wanted to become the youngest Mr.
Universe.
So now I'm down that stage, exactly where Reg Park was and when the Mr.
Universe.
And not only that, but Reg Park immediately sent me a fax.
And to London, he said, I want to invite you to South Africa to give posing exhibitions and do strongman act down there.
So I was invited by Reg Park, which eventually then by the end of the year, I went down to South Africa.
I haven't gone to the U.S.
What brought me to the U.S.
was, which was kind of my dream, someone would notice me in bodybuilding.
They would take me to it because bodybuilding was an American sport.
Not a European sport.
It was an American sport.
And so I all of a sudden get this invitation from Joe Weider, who was the publisher of the muscle magazines.
He published like four big muscle magazines, Flex and Strength and Health.
Oh, yeah.
We didn't use them.
And he had also an equipment company, the food supplement company.
It's weights.
It's the food supplements.
And his brother.
was the head of the organization, the bodybuilding federation.
Yeah, so he brought me over in 1968.
That was later on.
Oh, that was later on, okay.
So that was 1975.
Got it, okay.
You're absolutely correct.
Very good research.
Oh, yes.
uh It was in Miami.
I went to Miami and I was competing there in a competition.
And then after that, I came out to California and I was picked up in California at the airport by a bodybuilding photographer by the name of Artie Zeller and Dick Tyler, who wrote for the Muscle Magazines.
They picked me up and took me to an apartment that Joe Wheeler rented for me.
And it was fantastic.
From then on, I got all the help in the world now because that's when I really realized the generosity of the American people.
I mean, they gave me, I mean, the bodybuilders.
There was Thanksgiving came up after that because I came over here in October.
November was Thanksgiving.
So there was like this whole thing about giving me pillows and giving me blankets and giving me dishes and silverware.
Because when you move into an apartment, what do you get? I mean, it was a furnished apartment.
it was in the valley over there in the valley.
And then all those bodybuilders came to me and they brought me all this stuff.
It was like unbelievable.
So I could not even believe how generous they were.
And this was a lot of times people that didn't know me at all.
But just because bodybuilding and joining a club.
you know, you become kind of part of that family.
And so they were very, very sweet and kind.
And I will never forget that.
That's actually what made me then think about, well, when I ever make it, I will give that back.
I will help other people myself, you know.
I came over here.
There was a gym called Vince's Gym that had...
all the champions training.
It was over in the valley.
Okay.
In Ventura Boulevard in North Hollywood.
And a very, very famous gym.
This is where, you know, Larry Scott, Mr.
Olympia trained, and Don Howard, it was Mr.
America, and Don Peterson, all those guys were training there.
And then I ventured over here every so often for powerlifting.
There was a gym called Gold's Gym.
Not many bodybuilders trained there.
Some, but not many.
Most of them were like shot putters and powerlifters and weightlifters and so on.
And it was a much more rough gym.
But somehow, because of the Austrian gym where I kind of started the first three years in this weightlifting club, it reminded me of that.
So I started getting more and more attracted to that gym.
And then I moved from the valley over here.
To Venice.
And I was still part of Santa Monica, actually.
It was Ashland.
if this tree is not far away from here.
And then I went daily training there.
Then Gold's Gym, then other bodybuilders came from all over the country to train there too.
I was there and Joe Weider now started writing in his magazines about Arnold is training in Gold's Gym.
And, you know, if you want to go and train in a great place, this is the place to go.
No, because there was a lot of, you know.
This place was filled with great bodybuilders.
Oh, yeah.
So then others came out here from Florida and from Kentucky and from New York, and they all started joining Gold's Gym instead of training there.
So this was kind of like the place that had the best bodybuilders in the world training in Gold's.
That's how Gold's Gym became famous.
Because it was a little gym.
It was not big.
It was 3,000 square feet, I think it was.
Well, Yeah, yeah, Firehouse.
Firehouse now is a restaurant down there.
Yeah, yeah, you still can get there.
You can get great scrambled eggs.
You can get like 30 eggs or whatever.
Yeah, yeah, exactly, yeah.
I was never a big eater.
So to me, that meant nothing.
If I had a little steak and two scrambled eggs, I was perfectly fine.
I was full.
Not for the day, no.
But let's say in the morning, steak and eggs or scrambled eggs or something like this.
I always had to take protein drinks in between meals because I could never eat enough to get my 250 grams of protein because I weighed 250 pounds.
And the idea then was that for every kind of pound of body weight you have, you should have one gram of protein.
It, well, no, it was not yet, but it was something that was in the beginning, very experimental.
It might be in some places it was in the black market.
I don't know.
But all I know is that we always went to a doctor because they want to make sure that they measure your blood pressure and they check your health and all of that stuff because it has side effects.
Oh yeah.
And especially if you take it beyond of what they recommend.
So if they recommend let's say one shot a week and you start taking one shot a day or something.
Which is, of course, the case a lot of today, that people are overdosing, and that's why you see some bodybuilders actually die, because of the overdose of drugs and all this stuff.
Not in my days.
It was the new, but now, it's, I think, really somewhat, I would say, out of control.
No, I don't really, there's no move that ever made career-wise.
I thought that I had a real good nose when to make my moves forward and when I should retire.
from bodybuilding when I felt like, okay, I don't have the joy anymore.
After five Mr. Universe competitions that I won, Mr. World, and Mr. Olympia six times, I retired in 1975 after that competition in South Africa that you mentioned just earlier.
So that was kind of the last competition.
I did come back in 1980 again for the Mr.
Olympia, but that was really just an afterthought.
But I mean, really, I retired in 1975.
After the South African show, yeah.
It is a gorgeous country.
And of course, at that time, blacks and whites and everyone was separated.
I mean, by separated meaning they had different rights.
You know, the whites were the ones that ruled the country.
The blacks were kind of kept down.
of course he was.
But I mean, the whites really were kind of in control.
The Dutch and the British.
It was always a fight between those two in the parliament.
And so then I got to meet and to know the Minister of Immigration.
And he was also Minister of Sports and Minister of Labor and blah, blah, blah.
So he was a very, very powerful guy.
in administration.
And he, when I met him, he said to me, Arnold, when you come over here to South Africa and you do posing exhibitions and strongman acts, you should also go to the townships.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So I said, the townships.
Like the Soweto's? Yeah.
So I said, of course, I did not know.
And so he then explained it to me.
And then he would organize with the Reg Park together.
for me to go in because it was not the safest place in town.
Not that they wanted to do harm to you, but I mean, for someone like me to come in there and to do a demonstration there, everyone got lit.
I mean, they were drunk.
They were celebrating that someone would come in and give them the respect and do something special for them.
So very appreciative, right? So I would go in there, and I was in the cage.
The townships, they're all over the place.
In every town in South Africa, there's townships like that.
There's places where the blacks would live, right? Yeah.
In a very, very kind of flow.
That's one of them.
So in any case, so I would go in there and do a demonstration, do my posing, and lift weights and all of this kind of stuff.
And it was like, you know.
thousands of them surrounding and then just in a screaming loud and having the greatest time and then people go out oh they would put you on the grill i'm surprised i bet they were star so hungry sometimes they were like look at this well it was it was fantastic the reception and everything so but the reason i mentioned that is because it led to the conversation with uh you know that minister of sports um and uh He said to me, he says, we should have an international competition here in South Africa.
He says, we should work together on that.
And I said, okay, we will.
And his name was Dr.
Kornhoff.
Kornhoff? Dr.
Kornhoff.
And he was an extraordinary man, very, very smart.
But it just shows you that there was people like him that already wanted to do more for the blacks and to elevate them.
So he then, I set him up with Ben Wieda, with Joe Wieda's brother, who was the head of the International Federation of Bodybuilding.
They got together.
And they hit it off really well.
And so Joe Weider and Ben Weider worked with him to bring the Mr.
Olympia contest to South Africa, to Pretoria, the capital of South Africa.
But the conditions were that they were able to have a mixed audience.
Never.
Wow.
So there was the first time there was blacks, but there was not just black and white in South Africa.
There was a group that was called blacks.
There was a group that was called colored.
There was a group that was called Indians.
There was a group that was white.
I mean, there was like five different Asians.
So everyone was different.
So everyone- A lot of variety and all of that.
It was kind of like, it was not considered we are all equal there, right? And so what Ben negotiated was that we have a mixed audience with anyone, no matter what their nationality and what their kind of color is or religious beliefs.
Anyone should be able to come to this competition.
Wow.
And also not only that, but to be a judge.
We will have also half black and half white judges, blah, blah, blah.
No, not at all, because they were not.
I mean, I was competing in America at that time already.
Oh, you were used to it.
And I was used to it.
We have a lyric Colbert, who was the first guy with the 1-22 inch arms.
big, big bodybuilder from the 50s and 60s.
And he was a judge in New York several times.
And he was a totally honest judge.
There was other black judges.
So that's the great thing about bodybuilding.
In bodybuilding, there was no prejudice.
There were some people in bodybuilding that were prejudiced.
But in general, especially under the Wieders, the Wieders, I think because they were Jewish.
Bring them up, Ben Wieder.
I think it had something to do with...
the fact that they were that kind of open-minded about it.
There was no prejudice there at all.
And as a matter of fact, there was a guy by the name of Bob Hoffman.
He always made sure that when the AAU had their Mr.
America competition, only whites could win.
No black could win there.
Yeah.
So that was really embarrassing.
So there were some barriers within the- There was guys like Sergio Liver that would be competing in 1966 or 1965 in the Mr.
American.
He would get beaten by white guys.
And it was totally unfair.
Or Harold Poole got beaten in 1963 by Vern Weaver, which I thought was unfair.
So what they did then was, because there was now two federations, there was the IFBB, there was the AEU in Napa.
AEU? AEU, exactly.
The American Athletic Union.
Yeah.
They then went from that federation over to the IFBB, and there Sergio Leiva won immediately.
He became Mr.
America.
He became Mr.
World and Mr.
Universe.
Then Mr.
Olympia.
Actually, in the first Mr.
Olympia competition, Sergio Leiva beat me.
Wow.
1969, fairly.
I mean, there was no complaints there at all because he was extraordinary, right? And so then in 1970, I came back.
They beat him in the Mr.
World competition in Columbus, Ohio.
And then two weeks later.
in the Mr.
Olympia in New York.
So we were big rivals.
And that was, of course, a big admirer of his and a big idol.
And he treated me really well.
We went to Chicago and trained together at the Duncan YMCA and all that stuff.
I wanted to learn from him.
Oh, absolutely.
It's great.
Yeah, but you can get the job done.
Right.
So to me, it's not about the luxury.
It's just much more about the will to succeed.
And when I see pictures online of bodybuilders that are training in the sand, in Africa right now, blacks, that are having cement weights on a bar.
And a cheap bench.
And when they do their bench press.
And the other day I saw one of those kind of videos and they get up from the bench.
I'm looking at it and I say, this guy could win Mr.
America.
Wow.
Or win Mr.
California or something like that.
He looks extraordinary.
So it's really not the technology so much.
It helps you, but I mean, in the end, it is really what you have to work on.
It's the will.
Oh, I did my deadlifts right in front of the house in Graz, in Tal, which now is a museum.
and the housework.
I grew up in.
The home, exactly, yeah.
I'm going to go over there in two weeks.
Our pump club is meeting there with the European bodybuilders, members from the pump club, and then there's some Americans that are also coming over there.
It was so much energy in that auditorium.
And it was not a big auditorium.
It maybe held, I would say, 1,500 people, I would guess.
And the energy was fantastic.
The joy of being together was fantastic.
And I really think that had a tremendous impact also on the future of South Africa.
And it was just wonderful that there were leaders there that believed in that.
and wanted to organize.
And everyone, the police and everyone was really cooperative.
Everyone worked together.
So it was a fantastic show, a fantastic competition.
And of course I won.
So it was always a fantastic competition.
You know, when he won his sixth Mr.
Olympia.
But what was interesting about it was I got $1,000 cash prize.
And I was really upset about that because I felt like, wait a minute.
In 1965, 10 years ago, Larry Scott, when he won Mr.
Olympia, got $1,000.
And now, 10 years later, we still get $1,000.
So that's what made me actually motivated to go then in front of the IFBB, the International Party Building Congress, and to ask them for permission to organize the next year's Mr.
Olympia in Columbus, Ohio.
And that's exactly what we did.
I got the permission, and then we up.
the cash price to $5,000, then to $10,000, to $20,000.
We doubled it every year.
And now we're giving over a million dollars away for cash prices for the Arnold Classic.
Well, in those days, the way it worked was the whole lineup of all the competitors.
They have to understand.
Mr.
Olympia means that you have to have won a world championship title before.
So Mr.
World, Mr.
International, or Mr.
Universe.
So those guys are the top guys.
So you have like six or seven guys that are on the stage.
And so the judges, they ask you to order come out.
You have a certain time at one o'clock, be ready for pre-charging.
And then you come out and then you stand there.
And then the judges will shuffle you around.
And this is okay, can number seven.
go over where number one is and number one goes over number seven was you know they just see them next to each other different people next to each other there is a turn around turn sideways uh then what's the scariest way to be turned like was there ever a part where you're like this is i gotta kind of cheat this angle a little bit no i i mean for me it was basically always a tremendous joy to be up on stage because it's one of those things where you where you feel like when you're really ready? I always felt kind of like, in most cases, that I was so ready, that no matter what angle it was, I was ready to go, and I had always a smile on my face, and I flexed everything.
And, you know, the key thing is, is that you have practiced your posing enough that you can stand there in a flex position.
It looks relaxed.
You stand there like this, but you still flex.
Right.
You keep the stomach in, and you keep the abs flexed, and the calves flexed, the biceps, and the triceps flexed.
So that was...
And I was always having great joy with that.
It's kind of some acting up there.
It is one of the great forms of acting.
Why? Because you cannot go and say to the judge, look at me.
I'm the most perfect up here.
Look at my abs.
No, you have to do all that without talking.
You have to communicate with them and also with the audience.
Because remember that the sound of the audience is very important because you want to get big applause so the judge say, oh, this guy got the most applause.
I mean, he definitely has the best body.
But then you wait for the individual posing.
So then you come at one after the next, you do your three-minute posing routine.
No, I think the key thing is just that when you go there, that you're so ready that you don't shake.
You get how many bodybuilders, I'm sure you've seen it, they hit a shot and then after a few seconds, they start shaking.
Oh, so that's bad.
For that level.
I mean, it's natural when you have a Mr.
Venice Beach competition, Mr.
Muscle Beach.
yeah.
Beginners, of course, they make mistakes and they're not as well trained.
But when you get to the Mr.
Olympia level, it's unacceptable.
Oh, You hit the shot.
Yeah.
And you smile.
You look at the judges and you smile.
And then you smoothly move into the next shot.
Bam! And then hands.
Just the movement.
It has to be all very gracefully and no shaking.
So that again, that you say to the judges, look, I am so ready for this.
Unlike maybe the others.
So that's what it is.
So it's all about the seven Ps.
You know the seventh piece? Proper prior planning prevents pissed poor performance.
And the Marines, they have that.
So that's what it's about.
It's the same there.
You come prepared.
You make sure that you work.
Everyone has weak points.
So you have to make sure that you work as much on your weak points so that the judges see that you're not blind.
that you'd You've noticed that last year you maybe had not so defined legs.
Yes, maybe you won, but the legs were so-so.
And then the next year when you come back, you have to have ripped legs.
Right.
So then the judge said, that guy got the message.
So this is what it's all about.
Because in the end, you really are an artist.
You're a sculptor.
You're not just the athlete that's competing, but you're the sculptor.
But you're sculpting on your own body instead of a chisel and a hammer that you kind of sculpt a physique.
You do it now with machines and with the reps and the different exercises where you say, I need a little bit more of the rear deltoids.
I need a little bit more separation in the front between the deltoid and the pectoral muscle.
I need a little bit more cut in the lower abs.
I need the calves have to be balanced.
They're not big enough for the arms.
because it should be the same size as your arms are.
And all of those kind of things.
So you become kind of like an artist in your own body.
That's what the idea is.
No.
I mean, there are people that pay attention to that.
I didn't.
To me, it's always about the bottom line.
But what is it that we're doing here? What we're doing here is we're showing the most perfect physique.
and who is the best in actually displaying that physique.
Because it's all about presentation, presentation, presentation.
It's like a piece of art.
You can have a painting that is maybe amongst many other paintings, and you wouldn't even notice there's a Picasso.
But then when you put it up there on a white wall, and with a beautiful gold frame, with a special lighting, and then you have someone talk about it, now you can auction something off for a lot of money.
So it's all about presentation.
And so this is why I think the same is also in bodybuilding, the way you present your body, the way you present your muscles.
Yeah.
But remember that what is key and all of this stuff is also personality.
And I don't know if you can train a personality or not.
I mean, I don't know what you think about that.
But I mean, I think some people just don't have.
the greatest personality.
Oh, yeah.
Some people are boring.
Some people have a great personality.
And so I think that I developed over the years, not that someone taught me that, but I developed a personality because my joy for whatever I did came through.
So when people talked to me about bodybuilding in those days, I was not shy of the press.
Other bodybuilders for decades didn't talk to the press.
So when I came over here, people thought that when they saw my body, they thought I was a football player.
or was a wrestler or something like that.
But the last thing they guessed was a bodybuilder.
So they didn't know about bodybuilding.
So I, in 1974, I hired, I was the first bodybuilder to hire a publicist.
And so we went and did talk shows, the Johnny Carson show, Murph Griffin show, Mike Douglas show, and all of those shows.
No, because, I mean, I think I made it very clear in my interviews that my vision is...
be the greatest bodybuilder of all times, and to go then into acting.
So even when people came to me, because I was always very good in business, I studied business, I got my degree in business, while I was over here doing the training for bodybuilding.
I went to Santa Monica City College, to UCLA, and got my degree in business, and it was like business administration.
And I was just naturally always gifted.
for making deals and being creative.
You know, and I always understood how it works.
Right.
And so in bodybuilding, for instance, it's one thing to say, okay, I'm going to up the cash price to $20,000, let's say, from like within a three-year period, we give away $20,000 in the beginning.
But then you have to say, okay, where do we get this money from? Ah, sponsors.
Right.
So now I have to go out and hustle the sponsors.
Now, of course, we have the biggest bodybuilding and fitness convention in Columbus, Ohio, in the world.
We have 200,000 people coming through there in three days.
We have every company displaying their products there, their machines, their food supplements, clothing.
At the Arnold's it's called? The Arnold Classic.
Arnold Classic.
Yeah, it's always the first week in March.
And it's three days, the whole thing.
So now, like I said, now we raise enough money where we can give away over a million dollars of Mavic this coming year.
you're going to go and up to a million and a half dollars.
So it's all kinds of great things happening.
But I was able to build it to that because I have a business mind.
Right.
And I know exactly how that works and how do we attract everyone and bring everyone together.
There were.
The first Miss Olympia competition was a guy by the name of Schneider.
He was back east.
Philadelphia area.
And we did that together.
Oh, you guys started it? Yeah, well, yes, because the women were all kind of complaining, why can't we compete? So we did a little, shall we call it Miss Olympia.
And because the International Federation of Bodybuilding at that point had no interest in women bodybuilding.
Why was that, do you think? at the time, it was they were stuck in, we created this federation for the guys.
Why are we getting, it's like gym owners like Joe Gord, he would not let women train.
Why? Not because it was against women.
No, we love women coming in there.
But he figured, I don't have the room for another bathroom here.
I have 3,000 square feet.
I have only for the man, the shower, and the bathroom.
Yeah, but I mean, we had women coming in and their watches work out, but they couldn't train there until they got in a bigger space and then women were included in the whole thing.
And so the Federation was a little bit reluctant to do that.
And when we did the Miss Olympia, and all of the girls really enjoyed that, that they were able to go on stage and to also compete with their muscles and all that stuff, the Federation then woke up and they said, okay, we're going to get involved in that and we're going to go get them.
And since then, it has been booming.
And they've been doing not only bodybuilding competitions, but fitness competitions.
was the key to the best tan the best tan we got the best tan that we could get so I would work out a lot of times outside in the weightlifting lifting platform in Venice.
Oh, yeah, I love that.
So you get kind of tanned all over the place, doing chin-ups and doing bench presses and incline and dips and all this stuff.
Then we would jump in the ocean again, come back, and work out some more and all this.
But.
On the end, we then added to that tan, tan in a minute by Helena Rubinstein.
So I don't even know if this exists anymore.
huh? But.
in those days, it was the big trick.
So you put it on with a sponge.
You know, you just pour it out on a little plate.
You put it on with a sponge and you had a body of yours.
They did your back and stuff.
Oh, yeah, romantic.
You get in the back of the thighs and all of that stuff.
So this is what they did.
That's why a lot of guys.
Today, they spray it on.
Right.
They have actual experts come to the bodybuilding show.
And backstage, there's people that manufacture this tanning stuff.
And they would then help bodybuilders and spray it on and all of that.
So it's much more professional today.
They would put it in a bottle.
It was in a bottle.
No.
But, I mean, there were some people that were really stupid and then did not know how to put it on.
It would show kind of streaks because they didn't have the right spot.
Yeah, a little mulatto around the wrist.
So we put on just a light kind of layer.
It was all about just a little subtle thing because it's not going to make you win.
It just makes the photos look a little bit better when you have a little bit of color.
it was up to the individual.
As a matter of fact, they tell you that you can see in our Arnold Classic, a lot of times when the guys turn around, you sometimes don't even know who is black and who is not.
Because they're so dark now, the tanning has gotten so sophisticated.
Look at this guy.
Yeah, so he's a perfect example.
When he turns around.
You were saying it's a black guy standing for sure.
Okay, Dad.
Showtime.
Now! I'm very protective of my team.
Witness protection was our only choice.
But all of us living under one roof can get awkward.
Dad Donnie! Hello, Luke.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah.
Who the hell is that? Theodore Chips, former MI6 agent.
Sax? She means sax.
World War 3 is about to jump off.
Get out of there! I told you.
I'm back.
No.
Well, the idea of the show is, of course, when you act out, then you find those moments where you can play all of the different roles.
But the idea of the show is just to do like what we did with True Lies, what Jim Cameron did with True Lies, right? So it was like, how do we go and do a show where you pack it with action and also with comedy, with humor, and also with kind of soap opera, where it's relationships, interesting relationships, and so on and so.
I think that the writers did a really good job because just like in True Lies, I'm the number one spy in this show.
But when I come home, so I kick ass out there.
I take care of the job all the time, wipe out the enemy, all the terrorists.
But when I come home, I have to deal with the everyday crap.
Like we all do, right? You have to worry about the kids.
The wife is mad at you because you were gone for a week again.
And you couldn't really explain.
You always, I always, because my wife does not know that I'm a spy.
So I always had to lie.
And if there's this equipment company and there's a health convention there, they have to go to this convention.
I have to then I come home and have to make up stories.
I said, this sells guys are really interesting.
I said, I tried to sell my equipment there.
And over there talked about his life cycles.
All of a sudden they said, I was so upset about this whole.
And so, you know, you just make up all these stories, which is a, but.
I'm getting, you know, there's a divorce there then, you know, then my daughter all of a sudden is in the CIA and then she's also a spy and all of this stuff.
So there's all these conflicts that are going on and it makes it a really interesting show then to watch because it's relationships, it's action, it's funny and all that.
And so, the last show did very well, the last series and now they did the second season and so now we see how that is doing.
let me tell you something.
I love to work.
Why? Because it makes you active.
And I just think the most important thing is as we get older, you don't have to worry about any of that.
right now.
But I mean, eventually you will.
When you get older, you just, you have a tendency of sitting around.
You have a tendency of not moving as much.
And so it forces you.
So when you do a movie, you have to get up at six in the morning.
You have to get to the set.
You have to go and prep.
You have to go and practice the action and all that stuff in the fight scenes.
You have to do the rehearsals of the scenes and you work until night.
Then you go home and you fall bed tired.
And then you get up again in the morning.
So, and remember the most important thing for your brain is to go and practice and to kind of do challenging things with your brain so you don't get Alzheimer's and other kind of diseases like that.
So, it makes you memorize lines, long scenes, especially in TV.
You do like six to eight or ten pages a day.
Oh, just keeping your brain active.
And then I play chess on the side while I'm waiting for the scenes and all this.
Just keep always going.
So to me, the important thing is because I feel like if you rest, you rust.
And so it's all about movement.
It's all about keep moving and keep moving and keep challenging yourself.
Because as soon as we retire, you know, things go south.
I mean, there's just something that happens to the brain and to the body.
I have enough with my heart problems.
So, I mean, I don't have to worry about another problem forever.
For the last 25 years, I had heart surgery three times and all that kind of stuff.
And valve replacements and all that stuff.
It's a congenital thing from my mother.
She had it from her mother and all that stuff.
And so I have to deal with that all the time.
But everything is good because I train every day.
And.
I exercise and I watch what I eat, which is I watch the food and then I eat it.
no, none of that.
You know what I'm talking about though? Yeah.
I always was kind of in front of the situation.
So that means that I remember when I took my mother to the hospital here when she was here visiting, she always had an episode and I took her to UCLA.
That's when we found out that she had a valve problem.
and the doctor then said to me, he says, make sure that you also check yourself.
because this is something that is a genetic thing.
Exactly.
So, so I, from that point on, always went to the doctor and the doctor said to me, he says, well, you have, you know, at one point he said, you have a problem with your valve, with your aortic valve.
And you don't have to do anything now is his butt.
As soon as we see it going down.
We want to catch it before it goes down because otherwise it affects the order itself and blah, blah, blah.
So the bottom line is I stayed on top of it.
So when I got my surgery, open heart surgery, I went in there because I made an appointment.
So there was no episode.
There was no stroke.
There was no heart attack or anything.
Never had any of those kind of things.
So I always was ahead of the game.
Because you've got to have the best guy.
Of course it's important.
No, I don't have to do that now.
I would do that for sure.
I knew this guy's history.
Dr.
Stans was his name.
They did the first two surgeries.
And he was like the top of the top.
So there was no doers about it.
Well, I think it is always important to think about.
you know, the idea of that we should leave the world a better place than we inherited it.
And so my whole life was always about, okay, how can I make this a better world of the knowledge that I have? So for instance, in fitness, in bodybuilding, I went around the world to promote the idea of weightlifting and weight training and resistance training.
Oh, yeah.
And made it then popular, right? Because we had to figure out a way of penetrating through the general public.
They thought that bodybuilding is just, you know, flexing your muscles on stage, but they didn't realize that bodybuilding is something that you just get a healthy and stronger body for whatever you do.
You maybe need it for tennis.
You maybe need it for your bicycling.
You maybe need it for your whatever sport, you know, like UFC fighters are working out.
Oh, it was through you.
But I mean, that was the idea is I wanted to not just lift myself up, but I wanted to lift the rest of the bodybuilding movement up.
And so it was always something.
So now, of course, 50 years later, there's a gymnasium in every hotel in the world.
There is a gymnasium or weight room in every kind of a military installation or base.
Exactly.
So people are lifting weights everywhere.
Every high school, every college, every sports team, everyone has weight rooms.
So this is where we are now.
So this is why I felt really proud of that.
that we were able, with the help of Jane Fonda and other kind of characters, that were helping women with the fitness movement.
And so we really elevated the fitness sport to something really, also a huge economic contribution that it made.
So to me, that's important.
When I became governor, I wanted to make sure that we have health care for everybody.
I want to make sure that we have a clean environment, that we fight pollution, and to pass laws to reduce the pollution in California.
by 25% and all that.
So I continued on creating an environmental organization and to have our world summit in Vienna every year where all the environmentalists come together and talk about how do we go and fight pollution and all that stuff.
So we have one coming up in 14 days now again.
And so it's always after school programs, for instance, when I realized that our kids, that, you know, 70% of the kids come from a home where both of the parents are working.
So there's no way they're picking them up after three o'clock from the school.
So there's kids standing around after school and not doing anything.
So then I found out, well, this is the danger zone for kids between three and six o'clock because there's no supervision.
So they get involved with drugs, with gangs, with violence, with alcohol, teenage pregnancy.
I said, this costs the community a lot of money.
Let's do something about it.
Everyone was complaining about it, but they weren't doing anything about it.
So I stepped out and I started the after-school programs.
And it has been a huge hit.
We've raised over the last 30 years.
Are they still open? The program just started? $4.5 billion we raised.
Oh, really? How much was it? All over the country.
We have been to millions and millions of kids.
We have helped with after-school programs.
We had great success rates and all of this stuff.
So to me, it's all about how can I make this a better world? Exactly.
It's not like this should be my legacy.
I don't think that way, but I think about, I want to improve the world, especially now.
But I mean, think about it.
I'm an immigrant.
I'm an immigrant that came over here and got every opportunity in the world because of America.
America gave me everything.
They gave me the money that they have made, the career in bodybuilding, the career in acting, the wonderful family.
All of that stuff is because of America.
So to me, it's a natural thing that they give something back to America.
I hope so.
Well, I can tell you I didn't study this issue.
I couldn't really give you facts and figures.
But what I can tell you is no matter where I go in the world today, people come up to me and say, Arnold, can you please help me get to America? So that never has changed.
It doesn't matter to immigrants.
People that want to come here, they don't know what the political situation is.
They don't care if the Democrat is in power or Republicans in power, what the Senate says, what the Congress says, what the governor says, nothing.
They just want to come over here.
They want to get a shot.
So this is what it is.
And they have to do it the legal way.
So that is the the key thing to me is to do it the legal way.
Anyway, the bottom line is I think the opportunities are there.
When I go down to Gold's Gym, I see this guy from Africa that was competing in my bodybuilding shows in the Arnold Classic and was in one of the top three in all that.
Then he became a personal trainer.
He's charging $200 an hour.
He's driving up one day with his blue Bentley.
The next day he's driving up with his red Ferrari.
And I mean, this is a guy from Africa that came over here with nothing.
So this is a young kid.
He's like maybe 35 or 40 years old.
And look at what he does.
So there's trainers down there that are from different countries.
There's people.
If you're willing to work, that's why I always say to people, I say, work your ass off.
Don't ever come.
This is my big advice to immigrants.
I say, don't ever come over here to just use this country.
I say, give something back.
Think about that you want to work your ass off here.
You want to educate yourself here.
You want to contribute to America here.
That's what you want to do.
Because the very fact that you're allowed to come over here, you should go and have that mentality of wanting to give something back.
That's the bottom line.
Yes.
And let me tell you something that, As soon as people realize that they're not self-made, that there were a lot of people involved.
in where you are today.
A lot of people.
You couldn't operate without the engineer.
You couldn't operate without the deal that you got to do this and blah, blah, blah, and all this kind of stuff.
You have to recognize that because when you recognize that you're not self-made, that people have helped you, that is what makes you then click and say, I got to now help other people.
I have the responsibility to help other people.
And then you realize how much joy it brings you when you see that you have an impact.
and you can help other people.
That's why we have the Pump Club, and that's why we do the Arnold Classic and the promotion of bodybuilding and environmental stuff and the afterschool programs.
I mean, to go to one of this afterschool program conventions and to hear the kids' stories, it just makes you feel so good that you did that, that you raised the money.
We have poker tournaments at my house where we raise like seven, $8 million sometimes.
And then we put this right into the afterschool programs.
So this is where the action is.
And you can do all of that because, as I always say, the day is 24 hours.
And I talk about it at great length in my book, Be Useful.
I talk about all of those kind of principles of giving back and having a vision and don't listen to the naysayers and all those kind of things.
Well, I would say that I have always had mentors like, you know, the Wieders that helped me and I looked up to them.
Reg Park is something then bodybuilding that I looked up to.
Then later on was Ronald Reagan when he was governor of California, then became president, and Nixon.
People that I looked up to, or George Shultz, who was secretary of state under Reagan, that then became my mentor when I became governor and told me about how to work together with Democrats and Republicans.
and not just it's my way or the highway did you get to meet reagan yeah for many times oh really yeah yeah wow what was he like i was at the white house i was invited to state dinners there and everything like that they have good food over there so again good food over there huh oh yeah yeah they know how to cook hell yeah exactly yeah but this and then also nixon i mean i was down at the nixon library i remember in the early 90s and um that's when nixon just without telling me, called me up on stage and wanted me to give a speech.
So I told him how I became a Nixon fan when I came over here to this country and all that stuff.
He loved it.
He said to me, he says, Arnie, you should become governor of California.
It was really great.
So he was one of the guys that always pushed about.
Yeah, exactly.
Oh yeah, yeah, exactly.
But this is a great thing that you do.
I tell you, there's nothing that they appreciate more than to go there and do schmooze with them, take photographs with them, or tell them some jokes.
I remember I did it with Jay Leno.
Oh man, look at that.
look at that team.
Pretty good joke.
when you look at it, you did it often.
You do shows.
Yeah.
of course not.
No, I think it's a great idea.
And of course, I remember that when I was in my, hiding my bodybuilding days, I was invited to go on the aircraft carrier, Norfolk, Virginia, and to go and train with the sailors and to show them how to exercise and all that stuff.
It was fantastic.
I bet they loved that.
It was up there on the stage.
ever since then I really Found it really enjoyable to go to Bridgestown here near San Diego, to Pendleton, or any of those military bases.
Or if I go to Seoul, South Korea, or to Japan, or anywhere I go, Middle East, I was in Kuwait and visiting the military base.
Oh, yeah, it's fun over there.
Working out with them at like 3, 4 in the morning.
Dude, when I work out with them, Well, I tell you that there's some really serious lifters there.
Right.
Let me tell you something.
Everything that you want to do that is really good, and you want to go all out, it's difficult.
It's challenging.
But I was very fortunate because I married a woman that understood that I have to work.
And she didn't complain about it.
So we got together and I understood that right away because of the family she came from, the Kennedy family.
So Maria Shriver was like, she understood that all of her...
Bobby Kennedy, is he related to Bobby Kennedy? Exactly, yeah.
So if it is, you know, John F.
Kennedy, if it was Bobby Kennedy Sr., you know, when he ran for president.
I mean, her father ran for president and for vice president and all of this.
So she was used to that everyone has to go out and work.
The energy of it all.
They left the house in the morning and they came back late at night.
Or, like, for instance, he then later on, you know, was traveling around the world for Special Olympics because her mother was also a workaholic.
And so she understood that.
And so when I was going on location, when we had kids, she would go and she would stop her job in New York, the NBC job that she was hosting, the Morning News, and she would stay home.
She would stay home and she would stay with the kids.
And so this is why we have four terrific kids that we created together.
And Patrick, of course, we're very proud of him.
The show.
So cool.
He did a fantastic job.
And Catherine is fantastic and writes books and all this stuff.
Christina and Christopher.
And Christopher is also in show business.
He's working for a production company.
He reads more scripts than I've ever read in my whole life.
But it's really great to see all the kids.
Then I have one son outside the marriage, which is Joseph.
And Joseph is also doing terrific in real estate.
So the key thing is...
to really concentrate on being a participative father when you have kids.
Because you got to go, they want to see you ski when you go up and say, let's go skiing.
They don't want you to just send them up in the mountains in the cold weather where they freeze their butt off.
They want to see you sitting on a chairlift, go up with the skis and ski with them.
So that's what I did.
Just showing off.
So they, of course, they hated it when they were kids.
They said, oh, dad, let's go in.
I want to get a hot chocolate.
They said, there is no hot chocolate.
They're skiing.
I said, this is ski mountain, not a hot chocolate mountain.
I said, what's the matter with you kids? And then they were crying in the chair.
And then we were going up there and the chairlift and we were skiing down and skiing down for three, four hours.
And then we had the hot chocolate and we had the lunch and all that stuff.
And now when they go up to Sand Valley and they go skiing, they stop me and they say, dad, I just want you to know how much I appreciate that you made us ski.
Because now I ski fantastic.
I can go down on any run.
And they think of you when they do it.
That's what I always tell my friends.
I say, don't just go and take pictures of them skiing.
No, you put the skis on, you put the ski boots on, and you go and do it.
It's the same with playing soccer.
I was playing soccer with my son.
You got to go and participate in all of this stuff.
And so this is what I believed in.
I went to all the games with my wife.
Oh, damn.
My God, brother.
Well, Andy Liverwitz can make anyone look good.
Bobby, I mean, let me tell you something about Bobby.
He's a great guy.
But think about this for a second.
I'm running for governor.
In 2003.
And then all of a sudden, they get a phone call from Bobby, who I knew very well.
And Bobby and Joe Kennedy, his brother, his older brother, they were always really kind of nice to me and kind and inclusive and stuff like that.
but I mean, you know, some people are kind of like, oh, who is this new guy coming into the family type of thing? Oh, I see.
Especially their family because it's a prestigious thing.
That's right, yeah.
But they were really nice.
So Bobby calls me and he says, Arnold, You're a Republican.
Republicans are not known for their environmental records.
He says, I'm an environmentalist.
He says, yes, you know, I'm the head of the river keepers and all that stuff.
And I have a guide that you should have a new team that can educate you really about the environment.
I said, well, think about it.
It's really nice.
He said, who is it? Terry Tammenon.
He says, let me send him over to your office.
He sent over Terry Tammenon.
We hit it off right away really well.
And the next thing I know is that we're working together.
He's part of the team.
And then when I became governor, and I think that contributed to me becoming governor because I sold this whole idea that I want to be environmentally friendly.
I want to reduce greenhouse gases.
I want to get the renewable energy up in California and all of this stuff.
So next thing you know, I become governor.
He becomes now Terry Tammen and becomes the head of the EPA and all of this.
But this all happened, in my knowledge about the environment, all this happened because of Bobby Kennedy.
So that's the kind of a guy he is.
I mean, he's like, didn't say, oh, you're Republican.
I'm going to campaign against you.
No.
He.
was 100% on board.
He wanted to wish me good luck and he did wish me good luck and he wanted me to win.
Not because I'm a Republican.
He just felt like, oh, I like Arnold.
I want to help him.
I want the good guy to win no matter what side he's on.
Exactly.
So that's the kind of a guy Bobby is.
So I think the world of him.
It is compromised.
You have to.
Because the whole world doesn't think exactly like you.
Remember what Eisenhower said.
Eisenhower said that politics is like the road.
The left, the right is the gutter.
And the center is drivable.
And that's exactly the way it is in politics.
You have to understand that there's a sweet spot.
You know, like the teacher in golf, hit the sweet spot.
Or in tennis, they hit the sweet spot.
There's a sweet spot to find exactly so you can get a deal made and then you can move things forward.
It's not exactly your way.
I mean, I remember with the infrastructure, I wanted to build $100 billion worth of infrastructure, but they only agreed on around $60 billion.
So I didn't get my way with the financial situation.
I wanted to wipe out the deficit.
And I was not able to do that with all these Democrats around.
They love to spend money.
So I was stuck with it.
But the fact of the matter is we could improve the situation.
And I was able to work together with the Democrats on environmental issues and infrastructure issues and so many other health care issues, so many other issues, education and all of this stuff.
And we did really fine and had a great time up there being governor of the state of California.
it's not a dictatorship.
You know, so you have two parties.
You have within your own party, they think differently.
So you have to face reality.
The trick is just to not hate the other side because they think differently.
It's just kind of like figuring out how can we work together.
And how can we do something that's really good for the people? That's the bottom line.
Well, you know, if someone has a good program and if someone is organic, I mean, with me, it was possible because I had a great mentor, number one, which was Pete Wilson, who was a governor of California, two terms.
And he helped me.
Petey Wilson? Yeah, Pete Wilson, yeah.
And he helped me, you know, with the race a lot.
And then I also was organic because, you know, people saw that I did not come out of nowhere where I always went from acting to politics.
I mean, I was working with Special Olympics for decades, going around the world to help Special Olympics and to get recognition for them and to be able to get jobs and to have, you know, be able to live anywhere they want.
and to get into sports, Special Olympics, sports programs, in order to powerlifting and all this.
So I was fighting for equality, including in South Africa with Nelson Mandela.
We were there together fighting for Special Olympics.
So the people in California saw all of that.
Right.
And also me starting the after-school programs and having an initiative that I went to the people a year before in 2002, and the people voted 57% in favor of that initiative to help after-school programs.
So.
I was already in there and I was working with President Bush, being the chairman of the President's Council on Physical Fitness and Sports.
So I was already giving back and giving back and giving back.
So when I said, now, I'm not interested anymore in just doing another movie, I'm more interested in getting the state of California back on its feet, because we had blackouts with huge deficits, you know, the illegals were getting driver's license, all kinds of crazy stuff that was going on here.
And I said to myself, you know, the Indian gaming, they didn't pay taxes and they did all the gaming and made billions of dollars.
And their workers' compensation costs were high and people were moving out with their businesses in California.
I said, I will bring California back.
No matter how many people were campaigning for Gray Davis, who was governor then, you know, Clinton came out and campaigned for him.
Gore came out.
John Kerry came out.
Al Sharpton.
All of those guys came out to campaign for him.
I said to Bush, I said, no, no, don't come out.
I don't need that.
It's between me and the voters.
And so I convinced the California people, and that's how I became governor.
That's why I got a huge majority of votes.
But it was organic.
So many of the guys come from real estate, and they say, well, I want to be governor.
I have the money now.
People don't buy in on that stuff.
Right.
You can't just buy it.
I don't think you can just buy it.
You have to be real, you know, and you have to be able to have a vision.
Remember, again, it goes back to the book, you know, be useful.
You have rule number one is you have to have a clear vision.
You can't just say, I want to be governor.
What is your vision? If someone sits down and says, what is your vision of your California.
You know, remember that Teddy Kennedy, the problem he had when they asked him, Roger Mudd asked him when he announced to run for president, and Roger Mudd asked him, he says, why do you want to be president? Teddy couldn't answer it.
You know what I'm saying? So he was like, well, my mother Rose, she always taught us to give something back.
And so it didn't work.
People didn't buy it.
Even though he was a great public servant, he did a great job.
You know the vision.
But he couldn't sell it.
So you have to come out of the gate.
and really be very forceful and know and let the people know, I know what I want to do.
And I'm going to fight for you.
Not fight for me.
I don't want to be a political hack.
I don't want to be just another Republican that wins.
No, I want to fight for you.
So that was the whole theme of the campaign.
Well, first of all, let me just say, none of those politicians, I would want to run my company.
None of those companies, none of those politicians, I would like to hand over my checkbook, my bank account and say, you manage it now.
Right? So that's where it starts.
So they're not that smart when it comes to solving problems.
And so.
I can totally understand how $24 billion is missing because it's wasted.
They cannot even show it.
They cannot even have any accountability.
But this has been going on for 20 years now.
I know.
We're not talking about just for the last few years.
This has been going on and on.
Everyone has been complaining about the homeless, but they don't create, they don't really tell you that this was created by the politicians, the homelessness.
No, no.
It was created by having.
People go and say, we don't want no growth in California.
So when I came over, it was 19, 20 million people in California.
Well, we had six-lane highways.
So now when you go to 40 million people, you would know mathematically now you need 12-lane highways, meaning six lanes, and then on top of it, you build another freeway, right? So you don't have to have traffic congestion.
But that's not what they did.
Then when you go from 20 to 40 million people, then you need twice as many houses.
You need twice as many apartment buildings.
You need twice as much of everything.
Schools and everything.
And they didn't.
They didn't take care of them because the environmentalists thought that if we say no growth, then no one will come.
But in the meantime, no one gives a shit about that.
They come anyway.
And then they somehow then live three people in one apartment or five people in one apartment or sometimes, you know, workers that sometimes live.
10 people in one apartment.
Oh, yeah.
They'll really be laying on each other's backs.
So then what happens now is when you have a limited amount of housing, now the prices rise.
So now when the prices go up, the value of the apartment building goes up.
So the unit that used to cost $600 now costs $3,000 a month.
But the salaries, the wages didn't go up accordingly.
So now you have people that are economically homeless.
They cannot afford paying for their rent anymore.
So this is created by the politicians.
And now remember.
What Einstein said, the people that created the problem cannot solve it.
So they are doing the same thing over, which is another thing Einstein said.
If you try to do the same thing over and over again and expect different results, that's the definition of insanity.
So this is what we're dealing with here.
So we have, you know, the city here is not able to manage this whole thing.
On a state level, we are not able to manage this whole thing.
So it's like...
I had to go.
I mean, we had the homeless veterans camping out in front of the Veterans Administration up there in Westwood.
right in front of the four years.
They're camping out there, and no one is helping them.
So I went, and I started making a deal, and I said, can we not put inside some houses, little houses? They said yes.
And we started, I donated the money, and we started building houses.
And since then, there's now hundreds of houses inside the Veterans Administration, and the homeless are gone.
Because they wanted to help the Veterans Administration, but it took a while, and the city kept saying, oh, it is too difficult to do, and this is really challenging to do.
I said, watch that.
Within two months, we had those houses there, and we created homes for 25 people so they could move in.
Just to show to the city.
it can be done.
Amen.
Don't give me this.
It can't be done.
Anything can be done.
If there's a will to it with the whole thing.
No.
Yeah.
Really nice man.
I mean, he was very nice.
He came to my trailer several times when I was filming over there in Universal lot, the studio.
And then we had also dinner several times.
I remember one time with Katzenberg.
and maybe it was even Katzwick that organized it.
I cannot remember anymore.
But I mean, yeah, he was a wonderful, wonderful guy.
No, no, he's quiet.
And it could be because he wanted to protect his voice.
And he was odd.
No two ways about that.
But he was very, very nice and very interesting and fascinated about different things.
And he was, many times he also felt like, You're talking to a child.
You know, he would shift into this thing with things that children are really into, you know, kind of like riots and Disney or something like that, that he would talk about that really interested him.
And so it was kind of an interesting thing.
But you can see the way he grew up and with the amount of fame that he had, how difficult it must have been for him to handle all that.
And to be this genius of a musician.
I mean, it's like unbelievable.
And it's sad that he got addicted to this kind of, you know, sleeping thing.
Propofol, I think, or something.
And then took too much of it and passed away.
It was a huge loss for the world because he was just such a fantastic entertainer.
conversation do you guys feel like that i think that the key thing is is uh you know that we pump up um you know that while you're airing this interview that you show every 10 minutes a trailer of uh fubar okay and then while i'm talking you show a little bit of clips again and then let me help you with the editing okay hey i promise you this i will uh certainly support it Oh, yeah, from Total Recall.
Yeah, exactly.
Absolutely.
It was great.
And remember, I hope this is not the last time that we do it again sometimes.
Oh, no.
I would love to do this again.
Yeah, that was fun.
I really enjoyed the conversation.
Well, I'm proud of all my children.
I'm very proud of Catherine, who has three kids now herself.
and was writing books and he's the greatest mother she's just like her mother uh maria that was a really fantastic mother and i'm very proud of her i'm proud of christina who is also you know into producing and doing uh you know tv shows documentaries and all that here in los angeles yeah and uh then maybe i of course patrick schwarzenegger you know yeah just saw his new show He's doing really well.
I'm so happy that his acting career.
He's taking off.
You know, this is something that he really was very passionate about always.
Christopher is doing a great job.
I mean, he just lost 150 pounds.
No way.
Yeah, so he used to weigh 350.
He's now down like 210 or something like that.
Oh, He feels really great.
Works out in Gold's Gym every day.
And I know that I'm really proud of him.
You get to see him there sometimes? Yeah, I see him all the time.
Oh, that's awesome.
And, you know, Joseph is a fantastic human being.
He's into real estate, he's into acting, and he's going into training, he works out all the time.
So I'm really proud of all of them, yeah.
And none of them is into drugs, none of them is into alcohol, any of those things.
So it's really fantastic to see them.
And even, and I have also a nephew here.
I mean, he's really fantastic, Patrick Knapp is his name.
Patrick Knapp is his name? Yes, Patrick Knapp, exactly.
That's Katherine, you wanna have Katherine's kids? He's my entertainment lawyer.
I mean, so I brought him over from Austria because my brother passed away.
So he's, this is Patrick.
Yes, my brother's son.
No way.
So he was three years old when my brother passed away.
And then, so he went to school over there and everything.
Then I brought him over to also go to Santa Monica College, go to UCLA, go to Hastings Law School.
That's your path, Santa Monica to UCLA.
Oh, yeah.
He reminds me a lot of my brother, yeah.