So prior to Sequoia, I was a founder and CEO of a company called Polyvore in the fashion and social shopping space.
It was an arduous nine-year roller coaster ride.
Really high highs, really low lows.
We were like hot in consumer for a second, not hot.
SEO fell off a cliff, no growth, lots of growth.
I mean, consumer is a tough space.
Overall, we did, we ended up doing quite well.
We were acquired by Yahoo in 2015, and it was actually a really great outcome.
But, you know, I learned a lot along the way, and in particular, I think I realized that being, working on a product targeted at women and pitching to almost entirely male VCs who didn't really like get the space was pretty tough, and so that's why I decided to move to the other side of the table to I realized that I think there's a lot of innovations that should happen in women's spaces and that I might be maybe a little better equipped to understand them.
So yeah, I ended up at Sequoia and co-founded All Raise, which is a non-profit dedicated to diversity in tech.
Prior to Polyvore though, I was a product manager at Google.
I worked on the earliest version of Google Maps on things like printing, driving directions, which used to be a thing.
Yeah it is pretty different than what I expected you know just to be very honest when I joined I remember when I signed my offer letter at Sequoia.
I was like, I'm not sure I'm gonna I'm not sure this is for me, like I don't know if I'll like it.
I might be gone in six months, right? Because at my heart, I like to build things.
VCs are not traditionally like building anything.
You're working with founders and I love working with founders, but I don't know, I don't know if I'm gonna last.
And since then, it's been almost four years and it turns out that there are actually a lot of different ways to do the job.
You know, at the heart, you're trying to intersect with awesome outlier founders and then...
Once you end up partnering, figure out how to help make the founder and the company as successful as possible.
And there's a lot of different ways to do that.
There's so many different approaches to sourcing.
There's lots of different ways of picking and thinking through different investments.
And I guess what I've been surprised to find is certainly at Sequoia, there's a diversity of styles.
And I've been able to figure out over time my own style.
And it does involve a lot of...
building.
I've been surprised to find how much time I spend actually building stuff inside of Sequoia and then to some extent like actually helping founders, whether it's like closing candidates or execs, like you know working on personas together and trying to figure out like customer discovery.
So it's just it just really depends.
It's a such a bespoke job and it's been fun to find a style that works for me that is also helpful to the founders.
Yeah.
Yep.
Yeah.
Yeah.
You know, it actually started with All Raise.
Like I remember I found myself doing what a lot of people do.
I went to lots of events.
met a lot of founders, took a lot of coffees, and was just very opportunistic about just meeting as like packing my calendar for, you know, 14 meetings a day with like different founders.
And I found that I was very, I'm an introvert, I was exhausted.
I wasn't finding things that were really interesting.
And then I was just like, you know, at my heart, I'm a product person.
I'm a former CEO, I'm a founder, how can I build something that could be like a magnet, instead of just randomly going for coffees.
How do I put a single out there? And then, so with All Raise, we actually, part of the impetus for All Raise was this program called Female Founder Office Hours, which was, it brought together 10, just 10 at the time.
Now it's like hundreds of mentors, female VCs, and just said, hey, female founders, come chat, like get 45 minutes of free advice and just help.
And we'll teach you how to fundraise.
And so we did that and huge demand.
And it was like 500 people applied in a week.
And then that program's just scaled.
And as I've met more female founders through that program, I realized like it's allowed me to kind of think about how do you almost like source programmatically? And then building on that at Sequoia, we just announced this recently, but Sequoia has a sort of our own crash, which we call it the company design program, where we bring together cohorts of founders and then walk through.
anywhere from three to ten weeks of curriculum developed by the Sequoia partners on things like customer personas, how to build a culture deck with Alfred, who's the CEO of Zappos, how to think about strategy with Ruloff, who is the CFO of PayPal, and we just go through all that together.
The class bonds, we do almost like, we create, we kind of actually do hands-on work together, and then the founders critique each other's work.
It's like a lot of fun, very concentrated, and you come out with this network of or community of founder friends and some of the foundational elements of how to build a company that endures like all done right at the seed stage.
So it's there's a seed version that I sort of spend most of my time on and there's a series A and B version that that Rulof runs and we're doing it virtually so it's not just in the Bay Area.
Well we tried it virtually and that ended up working but we also had folks from Europe join as well.
I've been told.
this is an apprenticeship job.
My partner, Ruloff, likes to say, you know, you can be an 18-year-old chess grandmaster, but you can't be an 18-year-old surgeon.
It takes time and practice and like learning things that could go wrong in a surgery or like just learning and watching someone else.
And I didn't think I quite got that when he first said it, but now that I'm four years in, I realized like.
There are ways that companies can go wrong, that business models can go wrong, that like markets are good or bad, that I just didn't know any of those things when I started.
And by watching the arc of the various companies that either I work with or are out in the industry or listening mostly to the rest of the team and hearing the stories of like, this is what went wrong with this company 20 years ago or 10 years ago, or market has these dead bodies in it, or like there's a lot of competitors here you should think about.
There's just a lot of...
like arcane knowledge that I just didn't know, that being with a great team can kind of help give you a little bit of that boost to get started.
So that was a great piece of it.
Another one.
Peter Fenton at Benchmark was on my board when I was a founder, and he said, do a Series B and find a great investor who you can watch on a board, right? And being able to partner and see other great investors and how they work, especially if they have very different styles, has been really interesting.
I ended up doing the Series B for Ironclad, which A, was led by Steve Laughlin at Excel.
who is a fabulous co-investor and like knows enterprise really, really well.
And this is the, you know, versus I came from consumer.
So that's been a wonderful like partnership, friendship, and then also just the chance to see like the lens through which he views the company versus the way I view the company.
It's, it's, that's actually been really, really helpful too.
I totally hear you on that.
For sure.
Yeah.
how it applies.
Overly pattern match, that's for sure.
Yeah, yeah.
Well, to that I would say though, the thing that's most important in my opinion is the actual, is the individual, not the brand of the firm.
Like at the end of the day, you're adding a board member who's going to be with you for on your cap table for like the 10 years it takes to build the company.
Right.
Someone who's a true believer in what you're doing, who gets you and your style and is going to actually work hard to help you build the company, I think is probably the most important thing.
I think after that, maybe you factor in brand.
I do think I have noticed that the sequoia brand has it does help unlock some doors um when uh you know more likely to get maybe a funding announcement like engineers to respond to just sorry i want to interrupt you just quickly because somebody in the chat just said we're on mute am So I think it does help.
There's like a little bit of a signal that it can send for, you know, engineers responding to your cold outreach, you know, just slightly better odds.
And I feel like startups are a matter of like low odds multiplied across so many factors that every little boost like can help quite a bit.
And then in particular, I think it helps with raising your next round.
Right.
That often helps.
And then also helps.
with the valuation for that the round right after that may that's maybe one of the things that i've observed that was not as obvious to me um until i went to the other uh to the investor side but there's also like big drawbacks um like i think some people think I think Sequoia's brand, you know, it's like known for, oh, you know, it's been around a long time.
It's winning high performance, like back some of the top companies, but that can be intimidating also.
And so, you know, I often have founders tell me like, oh, yeah, you were my last stop on my pitch tour because I wanted to make sure I was perfect first.
I'm like, you don't need to be perfect.
I mean, nobody's perfect, right? And it just gives us like less time to decide and do diligence because you got to us last.
So.
That's maybe one of the disadvantages.
Yeah.
Usually another founder just saying, hey, this is someone I know who I greatly respect.
I know what it takes to be a founder because I'm one.
And this is someone I think would be successful.
So that's usually the best route.
But my email is also on the website.
So I get a ton of cold outreach as well.
um actually another reason to come earlier to us is you know i prefer if possible, having a little bit more time to just get to know each other one-on-one.
Because like I said, it's like a 10-year marriage, right, of you and your board member or someone on your cap table.
And knowing each other even outside the context of a pitch is really helpful.
The last investment that I led was in a company called Moss, MOS.com.
It's an edtech fintech company.
It helps.
people get access to all the free financial aid that the government offers in one simple form.
And when I was introduced to the founder, Amira, it was not actually, she wasn't even pitching at the time.
Someone was just like, hey, you should just, I think she felt she didn't have enough, I think women on her cap table.
So she asked, she was asking around with the All Raise crew, like, hey, I just want to meet some female investors at some point to add to my cap table at some point.
And then we just, our first conversation, we just talked mostly about our personal backgrounds.
Like I didn't even ask her a single thing about the numbers and the business.
I barely understood what the product did, but we just kind of got to know each other.
I just really, we just, there was a click and I could tell we had a lot of shared values and feelings about culture and how to build a company for the longterm.
I could tell she had incredible grit.
She's a former human rights activist who helped lead the Arab spring and turned Tunisia into one of the only um, Arab, I mean, she's just a crazy background.
So we mostly spent time on that.
And then, you know, as it was time for her to start fundraising, that's when we started talking, it actually helped her with her pitch deck.
And so we just working, we had just like a working session where she had a pitch deck.
I was like, here's my feedback.
You need to sell the problem better.
I mean, just that period of like, what is it actually like to work together? It made both of us even more sure about, um, this being a good 10 year marriage.
So I think because with Amira, the first context was not, here's my crappy pitch, help me fix it.
It was like, hey, I'm, you know, just wanted to get to know you.
I probably will raise.
And I was like, okay, well, why don't like, let's actually try working.
Like we agree that that's something that we would do.
I also do just randomly for especially female founder office hours and all race help with pitch decks.
Cause it's just like a thing that I can be helpful with.
It's like one of the parts that I teach at the Sequoia program is actually the storytelling piece.
Not, not fundraising storytelling, but like what's the story of the company? How do you sell the problem you're following, which is actually the key to fundraising.
It's selling the problem, not the solution, but in my opinion.
And so working on that together, it's just like something I enjoy doing and very few people have it.
like perfect right out of the gate.
So I guess I just don't see that.
Yeah.
I think also, if you're a founder, you just think very differently than the way investors are thinking.
And I think that's just getting to the topic of fundraising.
I feel like that's one of my biggest learnings coming to the other side of the table.
When I was a founder, all I thought about was the solution, right? I knew what my problem was.
How do I just solve the problem? How do I iterate through? How are my competitors solving the problem? And then when you're on the investor side, you look at, you know, hundreds of companies a year.
And what you're thinking about is, is this problem worth solving or for me that I want to be involved in? And you're, you're not comparing the company against its competitors.
You're comparing that company to all the companies.
And so it's really a matter of selling the problem that you're solving, not just as.
not just selling the solution.
And so that's the piece, I think, that you have to understand the audience that you're speaking with.
And that's how investors think.
So, yeah.
right? Yep.
Yep.
We got a lot of rejections for that until we change our business model.
Yeah.
of the like larger sand or top sandhill firms in particular have some sort of like almost like unspoken threshold on like how big could this get and is this likely to be like the threshold might be a bit higher than like your solo capitalist or micro fund sort of.
I think that that is something that the Sequoias, Andreessen's, Benchmarks, Excels of the World will look at.
So I think that's the maybe one thing.
No, I think it's a function of like the kind of returns.
Gotcha.
Yeah.
that we're expected to drive by LPs.
So, you know, you have to be able to, there has to be a path towards a, you know, multi-billion dollar market cap.
Like, although I will say it doesn't have to be, someone asked a question about TAM, I think in the Q&A, but TAM is one proxy for it.
But the thing is some of the best companies kind of.
create their own category almost.
And like Airbnb, that was like not a thing before, where you'd like book a room with a local and stay in their house like that.
I know hotels were a thing, but they kind of created a category.
You know, Dropbox created a category.
So those kinds of companies, it may not be obvious at first in some TAM number that somebody's done a market size study on, or Unity is another example.
I just, I feel this last week, but Unity started as like mobile gaming like engine and then it grew as you know AR, VR, CAD like all these other use cases came along and it just it exploded to be much bigger than we'd anticipated so right it doesn't have to be big now but just like line of sight to to that could be hazy but just some line of sight um I think that's one thing that distinguishes maybe the way we go and then I I have noticed that myself and my partners, we have a tend to react a little less favorably to ultra slickness or exaggeration, like a little too salesy.
Like I just, and I think we probably missed some great investments and returns because of that.
But I just noticed that we don't, I've seen us react poorly to that.
so dependent on like the individual, like everyone, like I said, everyone has their own style, different set of things that they look for.
And we don't even, we're not prescriptive about it across the partnership.
Yeah, the work from anywhere thing has been a big one.
I think a lot of companies are getting rid of their leases, shifting to work from anywhere.
People are like moving all over the place.
And that's opening the door to hiring talent in other countries.
So some of the folks who figure that out well are gonna have a massive advantage just because San Francisco engineers, New York engineers are getting...
It's just, it's really expensive.
So I'm noticing more and more companies being built, distributed, especially the seed ones who have a lot more flexibility.
I think that's going to be a trend that sticks.
I look a little bit at healthcare and I work with one telemedicine company called Maven Clinic.
It's actually New York based women's health platform.
They've just seen massive tailwinds in people.
Like I think basically the future that was going to come in 10 years, like fast forwarded to like, you know, compacted into a year.
So the work from home trend, the work from anywhere trend, the convenience of like talking to your doctor over zoom, and that's actually fine.
You didn't actually need to look into your ear with a little thing.
You just needed to talk to you about your symptoms and how you felt like everyone has had a taste of that now.
And so all of that has just been accelerated.
So I think the important distinction is which are the things that are going to stick and which are the things that are going to snap back to normal.
I think the working, the more distributed culture is going to stick.
Let me ask you about that.
I don't think social events all online are going to stick.
Yeah what I worry about is it affecting psychological safety like that so i think one of the i think google maybe did this study but like one of the biggest predictors of like team performance is uh the level of psychological safety on the team meaning do people feel safe enough that they can express their real opinion um and be like right and that requires the team to have somewhat of a bond trust, oftentimes a little bit of sharing of who you really are beyond just your work persona.
And I worry that without the casual or random, like I bumped into you in the kitchen and asked you how was your weekend? Like we're just in back-to-back Zooms where we like don't have time for those pleasantries.
We're not randomly running into each other.
We're not like doing things together.
Like, you know, literally just, I really miss walking into the kitchen of Sequoia and running into a partner and then like, Thank you.
eating some food together, right? Like, so those, that extra bit of sharing who you are beyond like the, you know, work day to day, when that goes away, I think it lowers psychological safety.
And then I think that will lower team performance.
So somewhat, we've just got to figure out a way to make time for it.
And so the best companies that I work with that are really strong at culture are figuring out how to weave that in on a Zoom level.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I think the further I am from who the customers are understanding the customer, the more I need the founder to explain the customer or sell the problem even harder.
And I like to see the problem sold through the customer, the lens of the customer, because I think customer obsession is one of the great shared traits across some of the best companies.
Some founders go as far as to include like the personas they wrote in the appendix of the deck, or they might do a diagram that's like, here's the chain of pain for the enterprise that I solve.
And, you know, here's how I solve it.
And so just if it's like manufacturing or some vertical industry that I just don't know anything about, the more detail there is there, the better.
Because at the end of the day, I don't have to be the customer.
I don't have to understand the industry that deeply.
It's the founder that has to.
And so they have to just demonstrate their understanding of it.
And in particular, convincing the investor that they do understand is important.
Yeah.
But there's some founders where I'm like, you don't even need to, like, can we skip the pitch? I already looked at the product.
I watched your 25 minute onboarding video.
I'm so I'm like in love with it.
Let's just talk about like, I might go into a bunch of other, it just, it just kind of depends.
I think the encouragement at, at, at our firm is to try to be fairly general and be open.
I will say though, what I like to think about is, can I be a helpful board member to you.
And I think I can be most helpful in consumer, especially consumer social entertainment, the wacky end of the spectrum where the odds are the lowest, where you need to growth hack, or you need to like, even if your product is cool, it's like not cool.
You know, a year later, it's just like the treadmill of coolness sort of area.
Like that's where I, I require a lot of creativity and a lot of grit.
Cause it's like so hard.
That's kind of where I built the company.
you know, I think we were like, all right, for 11 years of coolness or semi-coolness.
I don't know.
But, but I, I, I, that is probably where I can be the most helpful.
Then, you know, with Ironclad, which is digital contracting platform, that's a enterprise, but B2B2C where it's a product I would have used and understand because I signed so many contracts as a founder.
And so, so that's like, bleeding into the edge of enterprise.
And then healthcare, the healthcare company, I don't know that much about healthcare industry.
So luckily partnered with the fantastic folks at Oak who know healthcare really well, but it's a customer that I understand.
So I guess if you had to think about the consumer social spectrum to the consumer utilitarian, to B2B2C, to like...
Enterprise manufacturing, I probably stopped somewhere in the enterprise, but more towards the B2B2C.
Yeah.
Oh, yeah, yeah.
I've definitely taken meetings from cold pitches.
I don't think I've done an investment.
I have done two that came through female founder office hours, though, which are fairly random.
Yeah.
And one was, you know, she's Latinx.
She never raised any money before, never worked in tech, like very few connections in tech.
So I think that's definitely not cold, but it was kind of random.
Yeah.
Yeah, we're not allowed to.
We're pretty strict.
Oh, at Sequoia, okay.
Make sure there are no conflicts of interest.
Nobody's allowed to do anything except maybe invest in a restaurant.
Yeah the Scout program is our angel program and so you know each Scout has a small budget to do investing over the course of two years.
I think there's 100 something scouts the program is in its 11th year i think Sequoia kept it secret for like six years.
It's kind of amazing.
For the partners, each of us works with our pool of scouts.
It's sort of like, who are your favorite listening posts out in the ecosystem? I often think about it like, what are the tributaries that I don't cover or the firm doesn't have a lot of access to? So, you know, I work with a lot of um, Black Scouts because I think we don't have great coverage there and a lot of women Scouts.
And I think about it as a combination of listening posts for Sequoia but then also helping people who I think are awesome develop into angels if they don't necessarily have the means to do that, right? I was a Sequoia Scout.
And I was a founder at the time.
So like I wasn't paying myself anything.
I didn't have any money to be an angel investor.
So the access to the program and the know-how and to the partner to like give feedback was like incredibly valuable.
Alfred and Mike, two of the other script runs were also former.
I think 21 scouts have gone on to become professional investors at firms.
So it's both a sort of talent thing and a sourcing thing.
Yeah.
As for how to think about the scout investment, I have not heard of there being any signaling like risk with the scout investment because at the end of the day, it is really that individual investing.
And, you know, even on the cap table, I don't think it even says Sequoia.
Almost nobody ever gets questions about that that I've seen.
That's a great question.
I have been thinking about that.
Maybe we should look for some of our programming.
We put a little bit of it We did some of it at a TechCrunch event.
So there's a video of that.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I would say a lot of firms, including us, use it as like an incentive to actually take our money, you know? So I don't know which of the programs are sort of free access other than maybe startup school.
which I think is still a very different experience than actually being in YC.
I think rather than recommending curriculum, the more important thing is to, and part of the value of the company design program too, is actually the community you enter and just being part of, I think it's more important to find like four or five founder friends that you trust, who you can get advice from, but who you can also just be real with, you know.
when you have those moments where you're like just questioning everything and you're like why did i leave my other job to do this doesn't the odds are bad and things are you know the wheels are falling off the butt i mean that happens like all the time right um it's just like almost like a rite of passage like you you want someone who understands the and can share commiserate or cheer you up and then you also need someone who understands the highs right like There are moments when you feel like I finally was the best version of myself today.
I did the best all hands I've ever done and I inspired the team and it was just awesome.
And it's like really hard to explain that sometimes to other people, your friends who are not CEOs or founders.
You don't, you can't brag to your employees about it.
They're like, great.
You were a manager.
Fantastic.
You're like, no, like you don't get it.
I did the perfect pitch.
I did the like, you know, I finally figured out the right metrics, like, whatever it is, like someone who gets it and can celebrate the moments with you.
I think that's really important.
Yeah.
So I have heard good things about On Deck.
There's another one called Interact run by Maren Nelson.
And another one.
Oh, I'm blanking.
Well, at least those two.
Yeah.
I've been running it for like 10 years.
think um we have this there are the flexion points in companies where sometimes you have to make a tough strategic choice or make a tough decision around maybe a layoff or letting go of your VP or an early employee or your co-founder or just like a change in trajectory, either positive or negative.
And there's a decision tied to that.
And I think a bad failure mode is to postpone the decision or not make the tough decision and to make it too late.
And I think that is a big lesson.
Like you need to recognize when you're at one of those critical junctures where you're about to make, you're going through a crucible moment and you have to be intellectually honest about what the right thing is to do for the business, not necessarily the easy thing, and then make that tough, brave choice.
Yeah.
I think that's right when coronavirus back in March, we wrote a memo.
called it like the Black Swan, coronavirus, the Black Swan.
It's a blog post, but we shared it internally and then later externally.
And it was just about kind of that, like, hey, I know everyone's like right now, you know, coronavirus is just starting to appear in the US, but we've talked to our partners in China and it is real and you need to worry about how it's going to affect your business.
And the lesson we've learned over and over through 87 crash.
2008 financial crisis, like all the dark moments, the founders who are decisive and make the tough decisions are the ones that survive.
And some of the best companies are created during the worst times.
Airbnb, Google were all created during like bad times to start companies technically.
And so just that.
Yeah.
So what's interesting is the term frontier tech is, it goes back to that problem versus solution thing.
I think of frontier tech is a solution.
It's not a problem.
I think there will be interesting sort of frontier tech to some big problems that I care about.
Just looking outside at like the sky and like the smoke in California, I think climate change is a is a big problem for humanity for the next right.
Well it's a problem right now clearly.
Yeah it could be you know maybe there's some solution to remove the carbon from the air.
what it might also be a consumer app.
that makes me like change my behavior.
It could be an enterprise thing that makes companies pay for carbon offsets or track, you know, how they're doing.
So I'm totally not against, I mean, I'm totally open to frontier tech, but I think I care more about the problem it's solving.
I think climate's a big one, income inequality.
Space.
Sure, Yeah, I don't think anybody has a crystal ball.
And so the guidance honestly is like, take it quarter by quarter.
and like be prepared to be nimble and if you see signs going in one direction or the other be decisive about making a change or making the right move um in that moment but like as for you know a year out where we're gonna like i think the guidance is like don't don't necessarily try to predict but react quickly when you start to see signs yeah right i i think for me personally i Yeah.
Yeah.
um and it should be okay for his mental well-being too yeah i feel like physical contact with your close people you know is going to come back for sure i think the strangers yeah this has left a generational like imprint that Yeah, Thank you, Charlie.
You asked like such interesting and thoughtful questions, which I think is very, very you, you know, not your average, like, I don't know.
So thank you.
And thank you.
Yeah, there's such a nice series of fall fundraising days.
I think the material and like the things like which community to join, like that is such a relevant and interesting topic that I think most wouldn't, you know, not everyone would think to do something like that.
So anyway, I think.
This was a lot of fun.
