0 (0s):
Welcome to the Huberman Lab Podcast, where we discuss science and science based tools for everyday life. I'm Andrew Huberman, and I'm a professor of neurobiology and ophthalmology at Stanford School of Medicine. My guest today is Tom Segura. Tom Segura is a renowned comedian, writer and director. During today's episode, we explore the neuroscience and psychology behind comedy, and we explore the creative process more generally. Tom shares his approach to capturing and developing ideas into narratives that are once funny and thought provoking. We discuss the interplay between daily life observations and larger cultural dynamics when developing comedy routines.

0 (40s):
We spend a fair bit of time discussing the neurobiological basis of Humor and what data and brain lesion patients have taught us about why we find certain ideas novel, funny or exciting. We also talk about how this relates to the activation reward circuits in the brain and the seemingly automatic way that things are either funny or not funny to people suggesting that Humor is like taste or smell. You really can't negotiate what works for you or what doesn't. We also discuss Emotional Contagion and how skilled performers like Tom become masters at reading, shifting, and dancing with the collective energy of Crowds, whether in small Comedy Clubs or large arena shows. So if you're creative or you're curious about human psychology, or if you simply love to laugh, you'll come away from today's episode having learned a ton of useful information about the creative process and human nature.

0 (1m 26s):
Before we begin, I'd like to emphasize that this podcast is separate from my teaching and research roles at Stanford. It is, however, part of my desire and effort to bring zero cost to consumer information about science and science related tools to the general public. In keeping with that theme. This episode does include Sponsors. And now for my discussion with Tom Segura. Tom Segura, welcome.

2 (1m 47s):
Thanks for having me. 'cause we'll let

0 (1m 49s):
People know who don't already know. Yes, we are related.

2 (1m 53s):
Yes, we are related. People have asked me so many times the details and I, you know, I was trying to like, 'cause I learned about it obviously later, that it was like my mom's great-grandmother and your father's great-grandmother were first cousins. They're both Basque. So Northern Spain cousins. And then, you know, generations later they moved to South America. Yep. Years to Argentina, mine to Peru. And that's how we're cousins. Yep. Yeah. I guess distant cousins, but,

0 (2m 25s):
And my dad was on the podcast a little while ago.

2 (2m 27s):
How did that go? Because I remember we talked about him coming on. Yeah,

0 (2m 30s):
It was great. I mean, he's a theoretical physicist by training. So we to talk about physics, but we also got to talk about life. And I learned a lot from him. Did you I I learned a lot about him that I,

2 (2m 39s):
In that podcast. Yeah. Really? Yeah.

0 (2m 41s):
I'll send it to you if you're ever suffering from insomnia.

2 (2m 44s):
I I would love to listen to it. He's a theoretical Ph. How did, I didn't even know that. Yeah.

0 (2m 48s):
Theorist chaos theory and now he's into quantum internet. Yes. Jesus

2 (2m 52s):
Christ. Where does he reside now?

0 (2m 54s):
Northern California. Still, still working.

2 (2m 56s):
Wow. Yeah.

0 (2m 57s):
81. Still working.

2 (2m 58s):
Look at our different sides of the your, your dad is a theoretical physicist and my mom fucking plays bridge.

0 (3m 6s):
Yeah, but you, but you can make a half, half court shot. I saw the, the clip of you and lethal shooter. Yeah. We'll put, we'll put a link to it. Okay. I mean, you're excellent basketball player. Oh,

2 (3m 17s):
I'm not high level, very high level,

0 (3m 19s):
You know.

2 (3m 20s):
Did you play ball growing up at all? No. You skateboarded

0 (3m 23s):
Foot, foot sports, soccer, skateboarding. I'm pretty coordinated with my feet.

2 (3m 28s):
Well, the kid have been Argentine. You gotta give it a shot. Yeah. Every

0 (3m 32s):
Kid where I grew up played soccer. Really? Oh yeah. Oh yeah. Obsessed. Were you

2 (3m 35s):
Good at soccer?

0 (3m 36s):
I was. All right. Yeah. I played goalie. I like playing goal or fullback. I like to wait back there and just then just stick people. Okay. That

2 (3m 41s):
Was fun. Maybe you should got into lacrosse or something.

0 (3m 43s):
No, I like running. I ran cross country my senior year.

2 (3m 46s):
You ran cross country? Yeah, I

0 (3m 47s):
Did. Yeah. I was a little lighter than I am now. I'm like two 10 now. I was probably 1 60, 1 70. Okay. But yeah, like two mile races were okay.

2 (3m 57s):
I just did a 5K. Oh yeah. Two days ago. Yeah. How'd that go? I hated that. I knew I had to do it and so I just made myself, I was like, you know, you gotta do it so it's gonna suck.

0 (4m 9s):
You trained for it? Well,

2 (4m 10s):
The training for me is like, just get in a bunch of three mile runs. Right. So, I mean, I would do them purposely at like a slow pace. Like try to stay as close to zone two cardio as possible just to get like used to the mileage. And then we get there. 'cause it was, it was R 5K, like it was, I, I put it on with Bert and Spartan Race and like it was a

0 (4m 33s):
Bur did a 5K shirt off the whole thing.

2 (4m 36s):
Of course. What are you crazy

0 (4m 37s):
Weight vest? Weight belly,

2 (4m 38s):
I mean, sorry for

0 (4m 39s):
Bro.

2 (4m 40s):
Dude. Yeah, he was,

0 (4m 41s):
We give him a hard time 'cause we're still trying to get bur to quit drinking or reduce his drinking. I think he's reduced his drinking a little bit. Oh, okay.

2 (4m 48s):
So yeah, we did, we did one last year in Pasadena. We did the Rose Bowl. And so this time we did Raymond James in Tampa. It was called, it's the two Bears, 5K. We had more than three times the people sign up this year for Tampa. So we had like close to 8,000 people there. Wow. And you know, jelly Roll came out, Jason, Kelsey, Tristan w like the, a bunch of, you know, John Feliciano, like all these football players and fun and, and it was a very fun day. A very fun event. But here's the thing, like the Rose Bowl, the path was like basically through the parking lot and then on these side roads in Pasadena and you know, they loop it out and then you cross back basically across this parking lot and you hit the 3.1 at Raymond James.

2 (5m 35s):
I didn't know. They were like, oh, there's some inclines. I'm like, yeah, all right. Did we get there? It's all in the stadium. And the only way you're running 3.1 miles in a stadium is we're running through the corridors and then up the ramp. Well the ramp is nine stories up. I mean you're literally, that's

0 (5m 54s):
One long incline

2 (5m 55s):
Bro. So like you're doing like a quarter mile up and then it would flatten out. Then you go down, you're like, oh, this is nice. And then you go up again. So, but I was just, I think when you're also running with people you kind of get tunnel vision. Yeah. And they call, you know, you see somebody, you're like, that person's ahead of me. Like this pig is in front of me right now. Are you

0 (6m 14s):
Competitive by nature?

2 (6m 15s):
Yeah, I think so. Yeah. And so like, I would, you know, like I definitely was like, I have to beat Bert. I have to beat. Yeah, you

0 (6m 21s):
Have to beat

2 (6m 22s):
Bert John, my friend Felicia, I was like, I have to beat these guys. They're both like, you know, fucking 300 pounds. I'm definitely beating them. And so that was just like in my head every time I would see like, think of them, I was like, you just have to keep going. And then Burke got beat by a guy in a wheelchair. So that was also kind of sweet because I beat both of them. Nice. Jerry, what's up? Shout out to Jerry. I think he had a little advantage. 'cause those wheels on the way down definitely pick up some speed, but on the way up it's pretty, pretty badass, you know? But, but yeah, so like getting in those miles, like was was the, just like the training for it and it was, it was a whole thing. And I don't like running.

2 (7m 2s):
Like it's not, you know, there's some things you like if you were like, let's go work out, let's go lift. I'd be like, cool. I enjoy that. I don't enjoy running, but I guess that's the best. You like running. I love

0 (7m 10s):
Working out with weights. I've been doing that since I was 16. But I love running. I run.

2 (7m 14s):
You love running. I'm

0 (7m 15s):
Running three times a week, a long run, a medium run, and a short run.

2 (7m 17s):
What's a long run? An

0 (7m 19s):
Hour, hour and a half. Long and slow every Sunday. And then in the middle of the week, a 30 minute run faster. And then one day a week I do that kinda max heart rate VO two thing.

2 (7m 30s):
Where I would

0 (7m 31s):
Go, go warm up, sprint, walk, sprint walk, sprint, walk. Sometimes on the airdyne bike. But usually running. Yeah. I love running. In fact, I mostly lift so that my body doesn't hurt when I run. I like being strong. Which,

2 (7m 43s):
Have you always been into

0 (7m 44s):
This? Yeah, since I was about 16 I started running and I, and just found I could just go and go Probably have a lot of slow twitch muscle and I'm reasonably strong. But I mean, if I train just for endurance, like if I start doing two long runs per week, I just feel like I can just go forever. Really? Yeah. It's probably just a genetic.

2 (8m 2s):
What do you cover in that 60 to 90 minute run? Depends

0 (8m 5s):
On how in condition I am. But you know, you were talking about hills. When I lived in the Bay Area, used to do this run behind the Berkeley campus, the Strawberry Canyon Trail. And that's all incline, basically winding up, wanting up until you take the long cruise down. I would do that with a weight vest if I go from there out to Austin and on a Sunday. And then, then I can cover a lot of distance in a 60 minute run. But if I just train on the flat, then you get kind of used to just kind of going long and slow. Yeah. So I don't know the exact distance, but it was not unusual when I was in graduate school to head out on a Sunday morning, just hydrated caffeine and do 10, 12 miles. Wow. But now it's probably more like six to eight. Okay. Six

2 (8m 42s):
To eight. But also with a weighted vest. Sometimes

0 (8m 43s):
With a i I use a vest. They're not a Sponsor. Which It is fun to always mention things that aren't a Sponsor too. Yeah. Because for sure. I love this weight vest. It's called No Morpho and it, it fits pretty snug. It's not like one of these ones that looks like you're a suicide bomber or a cop or something. Yeah. It sits really close to the body. It zips up and it's got these like heavy ball bearings in it, so it's only about 10 to 12 pounds. Yeah. So it's not like a super heavy weight vest. Right. But it's enough that when you take that weight vest off Yes. On a separate run you feel like a God.

2 (9m 11s):
I will say that like, as much as I say I hate run, I, the, the fact that I made myself keep doing, I was doing like daily runs, almost like five days a week, just of like getting used to the, to the mileage. You know, it obviously it becomes easier and then you kind of go like, okay, I can do this. But yeah, I think I get, I get a lot of like mental anxiety about the running.

Maui Nui Venison (9m 36s):
I'd like to take a quick break and acknowledge our Sponsor, Maui Nui Nui Venison. Maui Nui Nui Venison is the most nutrient dense and delicious red meat available. It's also ethically sourced Maui Nui Nui hunts and harvest wild access deer on the island of Maui Nui. This solves the problem of managing an invasive species while also creating an extraordinary source of protein. As I've discussed on this podcast before, most people should aim for getting one gram of quality protein per pound of body weight each day. This allows for optimal muscle protein synthesis, while also helping to reduce appetite and support proper metabolic health. Given Maui Nui exceptional protein to calorie ratio, this protein target is achievable without having to eat too many calories. Their venison delivers 21 grams of protein with only 107 grams per serving, which is an ideal ratio for those of us concerned with maintaining or increasing muscle mass while supporting metabolic health. They have venison, steaks, ground venison, and venison bone broth. I personally love all of them. In fact, I probably eat a Maui Nui Nui Venison burger pretty much every day. And if I don't do that, I eat one of their steaks and sometimes I also consume their bone broth. And if you're on the go, they have Maui Nui Nui venison sticks, which have 10 grams of protein per stick with just 55 calories. I eat at least one of those a day to meet my protein requirements. Right now, Maui Nui Nui is offering Huberman podcast listeners a limited collection of my favorite cuts and products. It's perfect for anyone looking to improve their diet with delicious high quality protein supplies are limited. So go to Maui Nui Nui venison.com/huberman to get access to this high quality meet today. Again, that's Maui Nui Nui venison.com/huberman.

Helix (11m 10s):
Today's episode is also brought to us by Helix Sleep. Helix Sleep makes mattresses and pillows that are customized to your unique sleep needs. Now, I've spoken many times before on this podcast about the fact that getting a great night's sleep is the foundation of Mental Health, physical health and performance. When we aren't doing that on a consistent basis, everything suffers. And when we are sleeping well and enough, our Mental Health, our physical health and our performance in all endeavors improves markedly. Now, the mattress you sleep on makes a huge difference in terms of the quality of sleep that you get each night. How soft that mattress is, how firm It is, how breathable It is, all play into how well you'll sleep, how much deep sleep you get, how much rapid eye movement sleep. And it needs to be tailored to your unique sleep needs. So if you go to the Helix website, you can take a brief two minute quiz and it will ask you questions such as, do you sleep on your back, your side or your stomach? Do you tend to run hot or cold during the night? Things of that sort. Maybe you know the answers to those questions, maybe you don't. Either way, Helix will match you to the ideal mattress for you. For me, that turned out to be the dusk mattress. Do you SKI started sleeping on a dusk mattress about three and a half years ago, and it's been far and away the best sleep that I've ever had. So if you'd like to try Helix, you can go to Helix Sleep dot com slash huberman. Take that two minute sleep quiz and Helix will match you to a mattress that is customized for your unique sleep needs. Right now Helix is giving a special offer to Huberman podcast listeners of up to 27% off site-wide plus free bedsheets with any luxe or elite mattress order.

0 (12m 37s):
What about the running itself? I was gonna ask you whether or not it changes your mental frame so that you, I don't know, does it, do you get ideas while you run? Do you get ideas after you run more readily or are you just cursing the thing the whole time?

2 (12m 48s):
I feel like it's a goal to let my mind drift because sometimes the negative side of It is like you're doing a run and your, your mind is like, this sucks. Right? And you're, you're thinking about how much time is like, And that doesn't produce anything and it's not an an enjoyable thing, but like, if the mind goes, if you can let your mind drift, it's less about ideas. I feel like in those moments you're, you're kind of just, you're off thinking about more like life, not like create creative thoughts more like, you know, people and relationships and different and like, that's kind of a nice place to be. 'cause then all of a sudden you're like, oh, you know, a couple miles just went by.

0 (13m 27s):
Yeah. There's something to be said for these states of worthlessness where you're not constructing things in complete sentences and there's no sensory input like through a phone or through even I, I do listen to podcasts or, or books when I run sometimes in the long run. But there's this idea that a lot of learning and creativity is about purging all the noise. And I find that those long runs, they just kind of, I come out of them just feeling like a bunch of clutter just got cleared. Yeah. More than I had some like insight during the run itself. Yeah. Incidentally, 90% of the effect of exercise on improving brain function when it comes to long slow distance work is that it raises your level of alertness and arousal.

0 (14m 8s):
So you can do really great work afterwards. Yeah. High intensity stuff has a bunch of other effects. Brain derive, neurotrophic factor, et cetera. But when you see like exercise improves brain function, exercise makes you smarter. Exer most of that is by way of the way how exercise increases your level of alertness and kinda puts you in that nice state like, oh, now I can sit down and focus.

2 (14m 27s):
Yeah. My busiest days, like sometimes I have, you know, a very busy day. If I start that day with a a hard workout, I end up having no problem tackling that day. Isn't

0 (14m 41s):
That wild?

2 (14m 41s):
It is wild because like sometimes, like I'll have a day where, you know, I have to arrive at my studio, let's say at 10:00 AM for something. And so, and it's just like, it's gonna be recordings, meetings, pitch meeting, dah, dah, dah, you know, and then leave here, go to this thing. Like, it's gonna be the entire day. And if I get myself to the gym and I get in like a, a good hour lift, I come in and like, I'll notice everyone's like, you look like you're in a good mood. And I'm like, yeah, feel great. Yeah. And I'm ready and, and then I'm ready for the day. But if I don't do that, it's a, it's a different experience. Yeah. This

0 (15m 18s):
Is one of the real hidden secrets of exercise that I'm trying to make less hidden and less of a secret that Jocko clearly understands with. Its 4:30 AM wake up Jesus Christ and workouts. Yeah. That you're describing now is that, I won't go into too much detail here 'cause I want to ask you questions, but there's this phenomenon where when you move the large musculature of the body, so a resistance training workout, a a run it probably any, any workout where you're doing some big movements or you're working hard in that workout, it triggers the release of adrenaline at levels that wake up your body. Make it more willing to move. Yep. So people who don't have e energy to exercise, exercise gives your body energy by way of adrenaline.

0 (15m 59s):
And then that adrenaline acts on this nerve called the vagus nerve, which communicates to the areas of your brain that release dopamine and something called norepinephrine. It basically wakes your brain up also. So that morning workout that you're describing Yeah. Wakes up your brain and body for something like six hours by changing the neurochemical state of your body and your brain. And so it's not a surprise that when you work out before a long day, that long day goes better. Yeah. Whereas if you hit the, the work of the day, you know, kind of fresh, you're generating the adrenaline drink from all that stuff. This is when people feel a bit more anxious. Yeah. They feel a bit more irritable, they feel a bit more tired. So this whole concept of exercise gives you energy. That's how it gives you energy. It's not caloric energy. Yeah. You still need to fuel, et cetera.

0 (16m 40s):
But you're talking about neurochemical energy. It fundamentally changes the way you show up to everything else.

2 (16m 46s):
The way that I always feel like is, you know, a lot of times when you wake up you have what I would describe as like a fog sometimes. You know, like, oh good,

0 (16m 54s):
It's not just me. Oh yeah.

2 (16m 55s):
Okay. So like that fog sometimes, you know, you can, you carry it like it's just, it's it's in the day and you're just kinda like, oh there's this. But I always feel like that that exercise just completely wipes it out. You know, where you're like, oh, like I'm actually alert now and I don't feel that post wake up just fog that sits there. That's my favorite thing that to, to knock out. I love that.

0 (17m 19s):
I, I've got this crazy thing that I do now. You can try this. I bought a 70 pound kettlebell. It's about a third of my body weight and I have it set in the hallway so when I get up,

2 (17m 30s):
'cause I

0 (17m 30s):
Wake up really groggy. Really foggy. Yeah. I grab that thing and I suitcase carry it to the end and back twice. And then I switch hands and I suitcase carry it back to end and back twice just trying to like teach my body that it can do work right away. And I'm careful how I do it, but I find that now I wake up and I've got like, I, I think my body's anticipating that carry and so I'm more alert from go and I was like, ah, this is, there's something because your nervous system learns to anticipate things, right? Yeah. Yeah. Is that phenomenon of setting your, your alarm clock for 7:00 AM you wake up at 6 59? Yes. What happened? Like your brain is clocking things. Dude, sleep happen

2 (18m 4s):
Me so many times and I always feel like that's such a bizarre, like also for like, I'm not a big napper. Sometimes I'll be like, I'm gonna lay down like I have a hour window before I have to go do something in a hotel. Like I'm on the road and I'll be like, well just in case I fall asleep, I'll set the alarm and I'll lay there eyes closed and I'll look as it's one minute before

0 (18m 26s):
Your brain's clocking it. It was strange a study a couple of years ago where when people are in rap, rapid eye movement sleep, they're, you're basically paralyzed. The brain is very, very active. That's the phenomenon of rapid eye movement sleep. It's very bizarre brain, state brain. It is super active body paralyzed. But people can blink and they can show some little like, facial responses. If you ask them to do simple math problems during rapid eye movement sleep, you say, Hey, what's two plus two? They'll, you know, blink with your, you know, wink with your right eye. If it's four wink with your other eye, if it's five, you know, this kinda people can do math correctly in their sleep. They can answer not sophisticated questions, but the brain is tracking what's happening all around you.

0 (19m 7s):
This is why taking the phone and putting it outside the room while you sleep, people sleep better. People say, oh, it's 'cause the EMFs, nobody really knows for sure, but it's because your brain is anticipating picking up the phone even while you're sleeping. Wow. So there's, I mean, hitting with a lot of data here, but it's well known now that if you give students a test and their phone is in their bag in the room, they perform less well than if their phone is in their bag in another room. Seriously, this is true for adults too. Your brain is tracking sort of potential movements, potential thoughts, potential actions. Like the, the way brain circuits work is to create sort of dominoes of circuit sequences. So when you're up, for instance, you, you've gone on stage so many times to do comedy.

0 (19m 47s):
Yeah. As you walk out, your brain is queuing up a whole library of things related to that without you realizing it. Yeah, yeah. Right. It's, It is all context dependent behavior. And when you get home, it's a different set of context dependent behavior. So your brain is is is sort of like a magic library. I always think of this like, As you get to a particular idea or thought or emotional state, the books change right in front of you to kind of match the set of things that you expect. So if your phone is in the room, your brain is operating that way, even if you're asleep. That's

2 (20m 16s):
Insane. Yeah.

0 (20m 17s):
What's your writing process? Let's talk about comedy. That's, I've been, I've got about a gazillion questions. I'm gonna try and make them really succinct. What, what is your typical process of capturing, you call them bits, right? Yeah.

2 (20m 30s):
For standup it's a bit, yeah. Yeah.

0 (20m 31s):
What's your typical process of Capturing Ideas? Like do you, do you voice memo into the phone? Do you write things down?

2 (20m 37s):
I've done pretty much every, every version of it. Voice notes. Well, hi. Sometimes you listen to 'em later and you're like, holy shit,

0 (20m 45s):
Are you a Cannabis user?

2 (20m 47s):
I mean, sometimes I'm not like a heavy user, but a lot of times at night if you take something and you go to sleep, you're, you're trying to go to sleep. Your brain's like, nah, I got ideas.

0 (20m 55s):
Is that right? Oh yeah. I haven't done Cannabis since a long time ago.

2 (20m 59s):
Oh, oh yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. And then sometimes you listen because you're convinced, you're like, this is one of the most brilliant ideas that, have

0 (21m 5s):
You ever had great ideas that stick?

2 (21m 6s):
Yeah. Yeah. I've, I've had, I've had good ones that, that stick. Sometimes the wording's a little off, but yeah, I've had, I've had ones that I actually do enjoy afterwards. And then sometimes you're like, this is, you can hear yourself smiling, like, you know, 'cause you, you can tell someone's emotion by their voice. So I can hear that. I'm like, dude bent, like,

0 (21m 24s):
Oh, because you're recording in your I'm

2 (21m 25s):
Memo. IMing it into my, in my phone.

0 (21m 27s):
So, so let me get the process. So you, you're heading up to sleep and you, you take a, like an edible. Yeah. This is comedy school 1 0 1. No, I'm just kidding. Hey, listen, you're, you're the pro and you, you go to voice memos. You, you're there eyes closed and you, you start riffing on something. Yeah.

2 (21m 41s):
You, I it's like you're, it feels like it's separate from you. Right? Because like the, you know, the, the right kind of, I guess dosage of THC, it does make your mind run. And sometimes you can, you, you have less self-awareness. It's just like run like the, the way I, the nice way to think about It is that your brain always puts things on a shelf for you to get through your day. Like, things that make you uncomfortable even, right? Like, there's things that you go like, I don't wanna think about that. And then THCI think in the right dosage just goes here It is. Like, it puts it in front of you. Sounds terrible. It it can be terrible. Sounds awful.

2 (22m 21s):
That can be like, often what, like too much is where you can get into like paranoia. But I think if you have a dosage that is not too strong, so it's not like uncomfortable you, it just lets the mind run. It's like stream of consciousness happens. And so, and when that's happening, I feel like you go, oh, this is a, this is a, like, it feels like a new thought, a new or a new perspective on something. And you go, this is, it makes you laugh. You go, this is an idea, I should take this on stage. 'cause I think for me, a lot of the thing is here's the kernel of the idea and then it's not so much I'm gonna write out long form how to do it. It's like, that's the idea. Take it on stage.

2 (23m 0s):
So you don't

0 (23m 2s):
Actually write things out full form.

2 (23m 3s):
No, don't, I don't write 'em out full form. And then I just go on stage with the kernel of the idea that I kind of have a blueprint of like, well here's what I'm sorta gonna try to attack and then see what happens as I speak it. 'cause the other way that I, like, my favorite way to write comedy for standup is through com is conversations. In other words, we're talking and I say something and I either go like, oh, I should say that on stage. Or I just find that I am naturally riffing on it and like making you laugh. And then I go, I should try that on stage. 'cause everything is like, it's either, it's funny here, is it funny there?

2 (23m 44s):
That's kind of like how your mind operates, right? Like I, this is funny in this context, is it funny in the performing context? But

0 (23m 51s):
When you're trying New Material, you're not doing that for a Netflix special. You're doing that in, it's the term working out. Like you go to, yeah, you work, go to the comedy club on a Tuesday night and you're, you're working out, you're trying New Material, seeing how it lands. You've never, or is what you're saying that you've never actually built out the, the bit you're building it out in real time.

2 (24m 11s):
In real time. Yeah. Yeah, yeah. Whoa. That's, is

0 (24m 14s):
That that typical of, of

2 (24m 15s):
I think there's like, there's different, you know, camps of it, right? Like also there's different, so many different, standup is so popular that there's all these different styles and, and like, you know, there's like set up punch guys, like what you would call almost like pure joke writers, Sam Morell, Dave Atel, Mark Norman, those guys I feel like, do they do a lot of, like, here is a, it's it's the economy of words. It's like clear premise setup and then boom punchline.

0 (24m 46s):
So it'd be like, like I'm thinking about Norman, right? I won't try and do one of his Jokes, but I, I like, I like Norman's comedy skateboarder too. Same non-biological first family. So he, I've heard him do things like, so my wife and I were on vacation recently. This kind of thing, like a setup where it's very clear. He, I mean he clearly knows where he is going with this. Yeah, we're on vacation and we picking out rooms and then, and then at some point there's a, there's a punchline pivot, right? Okay.

2 (25m 12s):
So there's a, like some of those are, especially when you, when you feel like they're quite short. If it's like a, it's like over quickly that's going to a lot of times be something that you knew, I'm gonna say it exactly like this. It's like the most traditional form of a joke. Here's the setup, here's the punchline. And like, I've written Jokes like that in, in standup, but I do a lot more, you know, long form I think like Storytelling stuff. And so, you know, to write that all out, I feel like you almost, you almost get in your own way. 'cause you're just like, you, you, because then what happens is what you write and what you say that it's never quite the same.

2 (25m 53s):
So you, you kind of go through what you think is funny about what happened and then you take that on stage and then you take that on stage and maybe in a room with like 80 or a hundred people. And then, you know, that's the nice thing about standup is you learn right away if that shit is funny or not. Like people are laughing hard and you're like, and that's what's a such a rush because you go, this was an idea, this thing happened. You try it, it works. It's like, it's a really euphoric feeling. And then if it doesn't, you know, that's when like kind of the, I guess like the, the real work of it comes in. 'cause then you're trying to figure out, you're like, especially if you're like married to the idea. If you're like, this is funny, but it didn't work.

2 (26m 34s):
So then you start thinking about, did I, is there not enough information for it to work? Is that the problem? Is there too much? 'cause we always say like, trim the fat. Like if you, if you have too much stuff in there that is not getting laughs, it's like maybe just omit some of this information. Right? So that becomes like, okay, I'll go back. And instead, instead of saying this is like useless information, it's not adding to what's funny or whatever. It's not adding to the story I'm telling you. Start dropping that. And so you, you start experimenting and then, and then sometimes you just get into like, okay, is the actual line that I'm saying the problem is It, is it that that's not a good enough joke line? And then you start experimenting with that.

2 (27m 14s):
And then sometimes you figure it out. Which is again like such an amazing feeling where you go, this used to not work and now it works. And then sometimes you just gotta go, fuck man, this just doesn't work. You just have to abandon it. Yeah.

0 (27m 29s):
If something works or you feel like it's beginning, it's the start of a thread that could work. Do you end up writing it down for later? Like, like you're cueing yourself like, you know, the, the walk with my son bit or something like that? Or it's just, or it's all in your head?

2 (27m 42s):
Well, you, you kind of have it all in your head and then, oh, was I gonna show you like, I have this, that's all. I'll look at this like before I go on stage. Right. Okay. Which is like

0 (27m 54s):
Tom's showing. We can get a, a photo of this if he lets us it, it's a bunch of Sharpie written single words. Yeah. Gitmo jail teacher. Duck Huberman. Just kidding. Augusta kill my wife.

2 (28m 5s):
Yeah. It's like, so those like

0 (28m 7s):
Hitler, Tunisia make shit. This is amazing. Yeah.

2 (28m 12s):
That's, that's, that's a, that's a, a Set List for the, for an hour. If you

0 (28m 17s):
Think about the, the range of things in this relatively short list Yeah. As a partial representation of what goes on in Tom RA's brain. You get a little,

2 (28m 27s):
You get concern. Well, what's interesting concern is that I, another way like I think comedians would look at It is you kind of start to go, these are 15 minute chunks. Because when you do an hour, a lot of comics think of it as four 15 minute chunks. Right? So you go like, okay, this is kind of like setting the table chunk. This is like a kid's family chunk. This is, you know, commentary on social issues or like things that I'm doing or in, or consuming. And then your last chunk is like, I always feel like you wanna get into like your, some of your more, I dunno, wilder takes like, after the audience has gotten to know you and like trusts you, they're like, okay, is that way you can kind of like push it more the further into the set you are.

2 (29m 17s):
Yeah. So you just kind of break it down.

0 (29m 19s):
Yeah. Very different. But I've done some lives and I have a, you know, four things I'm gonna cover and then, but I don't know how I'm gonna cover them. Jordan Peterson, when he goes out for his lives, I've been to them, he literally explores a topic in real time, walking back and forth across the stage. Yeah. For the first time. I know this because people verify that every night he does something different. Even the same city. Yeah. He's exploring it completely in real time. And then other people's lives that I've been to, it's clear, it's pretty scripted. Yeah. They know exactly what they're gonna say and when they have a sequence, they have slides. And so I think you, it can be done any different number of ways. How long do you go during your waking hours without making or thinking of a joke?

2 (29m 59s):
You know, that's a good question. I really feel like when you asked me that question, do you know the first person that I think of is actually Rick Rubin. And this is why I was, I remember reading the, that book he put out creative

0 (30m 13s):
Act

2 (30m 13s):
And he was like, there's something about, I'm paraphrasing here, but about like having your antenna up. Like in other words, you still put out some part, you puts out the signal, so to speak, that you're not like going, I need to find something funny. But you're, you're putting your brain in the mode of that, right? And you can also choose not to. And I think there's times where you go like, oh wow, I haven't thought of any, like, I haven't looked at anything with like a humorous perspective today or for whatever, however many hours. And it's almost like that can shift either by you consciously making an effort to do it or by the company you keep.

2 (30m 57s):
Because like, obviously if you're hanging out with comedians, people, it's like, just by being around them, your brain just shifts to like joke mode. You know what I mean? Like you're just, you're thinking in, in terms in those terms. Or if you're working on something like you're write like writing a script or something, your brain is like actively, even when you're not trying to, it's like thinking of that story and thinking of Jokes for the story. So the answer is like, it, you know, depending on the day, it can be like all day you're just like joking, joking, joking. And like, you're, you're just in my case, like, you know, saying mostly like awful things. 'cause that's what makes me laugh, I think. You know what I mean? Like whether it's with friends or family, just like trying to make yourself laugh really.

2 (31m 43s):
And then there's days where it's like, you know, you're in like a completely serious mindset where you're like, nothing humorous is occurring to me at all.

0 (31m 52s):
You happen to be married to a comedian. Yeah. Which probably helps your home life in the sense that, you know. Has she ever been offended by one of your Jokes?

2 (32m 1s):
You know, early on? Well, I remember like, we would have conversations where I was, I I more, it was more like the fact that I would, I remember I, I'd pitch like a joke idea and she would be like, that's fucking awful. And, and then I would, I told her, I go, you know, whenever you think something is awful, I know it's gonna be good on stage. Like, and she was like, she was like, that's horrible to say. I was like, no, it's true. Like if, if you have disdain for what I said, then I'm pretty confident that it's gonna work. And it was kind of like that. But no, for the most part, no. And she says wildly inappropriate and crazy funny things like often way over my line, you know what I mean?

2 (32m 46s):
Not where I'm offended, but I'm like, Jesus Christ. Like, yeah. She says crazy shit. Really crazy.

0 (32m 52s):
Has she ever offended you to the point where you're like, you you can't tell that joke in public, our family will suffer?

2 (32m 59s):
No, I've never had, we've never had that conversation. Sometimes we have what makes this joke digestible? Conversations we're like, we talk about a bit and we're like, and then this is the punchline is like in this world. And it's like, okay, you gotta find a way to say that that is gonna be digestible to the, to like, so you, like, you actually look for like your own advantage. What I mean is like, you know, as a woman, I go like, you can shit on women harder because you're a woman. So like, you should find your way into that bit from the perspective that like, you're actually, you know what I mean?

2 (33m 40s):
Like you're actually shit. Like, It is like if you're a woman, you can, it's like a black comic can talk about black people, right? Like that's, it's, you're talking about your own. So like, we'll talk about things like that. Like you can, you can take this angle and then that, and then the joke becomes digestible. So we'll, we'll talk about like reframing material. And then to me she's like, yeah, you're just a white guy. You can, apparently you guys can say anything. I'm like, oh

0 (34m 8s):
Yeah, really? On the other hand, comedians and what's allowed in comedy at a given time has a, a powerful influence on culture. Yeah. What, what you can say what you can't say. Has any comedian ever been canceled for what they said as part of a bit? I mean, we've got these examples of these, I I consider them kind of sad instances where people kind of break down on stage having interaction with someone in the audience and it really hurts their career and it's super offensive, but that's clearly not part of the bit, right. Has a comedian ever been canceled for like here was the bit and they're done?

2 (34m 44s):
I don't, I can't tell you that it comes to like the top of my head. Me neither. Thinking about that. I know there's been, like, I remember there's a Canadian comic that in Canada has some like, bizarre to my experience, free speech rules. Oh, okay.

0 (34m 60s):
And I think say comics, I was like, I always think Canadians are so, you know, kind of kind and, and well behaved.

2 (35m 6s):
And they have some amazing comedians. They also

0 (35m 8s):
Have some crazy serial killer stories up there I discovered. So Really? Yeah. I mean this idea that Canada is just all like nicer American. Oh yeah. That's not nicer. Americans is not

2 (35m 16s):
True. No, no. There's they

0 (35m 17s):
Were wonderful Canadians. Yeah. But but they're not all nice.

2 (35m 20s):
No, for sure. They're not all nice. No. There's some real fucking pricks up there. Yeah, I've, I've met a few, but there's all, there's a a amazing, I mean, you know, obviously you think of like Nor McDonald and Mike Myers, Ian bag, like all these, there's really, really funny Canadian comics, but I remember that there was not too long ago, I'm sure we could find it. There's a Canadian comic that, like, he, he went after some woman in the crowd, like, you know, shut her down, said something offensive, whatever. And he got arrested, you know, had and like Yeah. Arrested. Yeah, yeah. Arrested and had to pay like substantial fines.

2 (36m 0s):
It is like

0 (36m 1s):
Lenny Bruce days. Yeah.

2 (36m 2s):
It's really crazy. And this was not, I don't mean like 25 years ago, I mean like sometime in the last five years. Whoa. Yeah. So that I, I know there, there are rules on, so that's like the first thing that I think of when you, when you, when you say that, I also just don't feel like when people talk about, you know, like Cancel Culture with comedians or like Elon's stupid fucking make comedy legal again, goofy shit that he said. It's like, what are you talking about? Like there is no, you can say whatever you wanna say. The, the thing you're pointing, the thing you're really trying to talk about is the fact that like people resp react and you know about it, right? Like 30 years ago there were people that hated, I'm sure Robin Williams and you know, Carlin like, they hated him.

2 (36m 51s):
The difference is they would just tell their friend and if they really wanted to make a point, they'd get a pen and a paper and buy a fucking stamp and mail 'em a letter. Like now you have Social Media platforms and people can make videos and like go crazy and you just hear the noise. But that's not like humanity has changed. You just hear people telling you that they don't like what you did or that they don't think you're funny or whatever. It's not like they didn't, that didn't exist before.

0 (37m 20s):
But that's also because thanks in large part to Rogan, but to others as well. Most comedians seem to control the venues in which they release their information podcasts. Yeah. You know, I guess you could be thrown out of a, a club and not be able to present your material there. Sure. But there's probably another one that you could open up. And that's happened too. Yeah. But podcasts, people will now release their own specials where, you know, it's paid of view. There's Netflix, there's, there are a bunch of different venues where it doesn't seem like comedy is is as centralized anymore controlled by the major media houses.

2 (37m 55s):
That is true. It's in complete control of the comedians themselves. Like you are, you can put up clips of you doing standup, you can make skits, you can do short films, you can do whatever. And you can release it and, and find an audience like they say, you know, like make, have an audience come to you. But I just don't buy this whole thing that like, you know, you can't, you can't joke about that. You can joke about whatever you want,

0 (38m 19s):
Man, but not at work. I mean, if you, if someone makes a joke or repeats a joke, oh, well, and let's say an academic setting, foreign or the office place.

2 (38m 27s):
No, your guys, I mean world is the worst when it comes to that. Yeah. The academic world is

0 (38m 32s):
Actually, it's interesting. In the last five to eight years, the academic world has actually from this around this topic has become safer because the rules are very clear. Mm. They're what I call thick black lines. Right? It's when things are murky that people got themselves in trouble. Sure. Right. So if you look 10 years back, it was really complicated. Now everyone kind of gets the, knows what the standard is. Yeah. Might be uncomfortable for some, not for others, but they know what the standard is. It's very easy to adhere to a standard if you know where the fences are. Sure. Where it seems to be still murky is in the workplace. Like in the boardroom you'll hear about, you know, like tech companies or in finance or startups, right. Because startups, when they're small typically don't have an HR department.

0 (39m 14s):
Yeah. The HR department is kinda the standards that you create around the, you know, the office, which could be a garage. Right. So that's typically when, when things aren't well defined is when there are problems. So yes, it's rigid in certain areas like academia, law offices, et cetera, but everyone knows what the rules are. Yeah. I'm not saying it's good or bad, I'm just saying, you know

2 (39m 36s):
What It is, you know what they are. But I feel like we're talking about in comedy as a profession, like, you know, the, you can joke about whatever you want, dude, but you can't dictate is how people will react to it. And if you're, if you're trying to say like, 'cause some comedians do this where they go, this was the joke and what I'm mad about and what I'm going to be vocal about and complain about is that not everybody liked it. You're like, yeah, that's not, I mean, that's essentially what they're doing, right? They throw a tantrum over the fact that some people are upset at the joke. You're like, yeah, that's how it goes. Like either it goes really well or it doesn't. And if you can't go, oh, see I can't joke about stuff because look how they reacted.

2 (40m 20s):
You're like, that's, that's how this works. Like what you can also do is completely ignore that. And if you want double down on your joke, keep going. Do it. Even do a crazier version of your joke. But just be prepared that not everyone's gonna go. That was the greatest thing ever. And that's what some comics do is they go, I can't believe not everybody is applauding me on this thing. It's they'll, they'll liken it to Cancel Culture, which is insane.

0 (40m 47s):
Right? Yeah. You have to be a professional and part of being a professional is how it lands. Yeah. As important As

2 (40m 53s):
You just have no say in that.

0 (40m 56s):
I'm always fascinated by comics who will smirk or laugh a little bit at their own joke. And assuming that certain Jokes and bits work exceptionally well and you carry them forward from, you know, trying it out to, you know, Netflix specials or big venues, huge venue. You do huge venues, Berg do huge venues. Do you ever get tired of the material and worry that your response is not going to, that your Amusement won't be there and therefore they won't respond to it. This is two questions wove, I'm realizing. Do you think your own Amusement with a, with a joke has an impact on how it lands? That's question one. And woven in with that is how do you then work with the idea that every time you tell a joke, it might not be as funny as the previous time?

2 (41m 41s):
No, those are, those are great questions. Yeah. I, I feel like if I am smirking or laughing at a joke of mine, it's probably organic. I don't try to like manufacture one. You still want to enjoy the process of performing it. And when you lose that enjoyment of performing it, I do think the audience knows on like an unspoken level, there's something about it that doesn't come across the same way. And Yeah. You, you sense it. And I think typically what happens, what's happened to me over time is if you're on tour and you're kinda like, your brain is like walking up to this bit, like you, you know, it's next and you start to like, internally go like, ah, this fucking bit, like what happens naturally is you start to drop it and it's, you're, you're essentially listening to yourself.

2 (42m 37s):
It's one of those, it's like the same way you go, I should, I don't like this person. Right? You go like, I don't think I wanna be friends with this per and you, you kind of like, don't return a text or you go, I'm not gonna hang out with you. Yeah.

0 (42m 49s):
Slow exit. It's

2 (42m 50s):
A slow exit. And what happens is you drop it and the great thing about dropping It is your brain goes, Hey, you have room for something now. And that room for something also prompts your brain to start thinking of new things. That's how you kind of come up with New Material is that you, but you have to, this is the danger by the way, of these comedians. Sometimes there's these comics who are like really funny, really talented people and they'll do, they'll have a 20 minute set, right? Like you'll, you'll be working in clubs and you see 'em do a 20 minute set and it then they murder, right? They fucking kill so hard. And then like five years later you see them and they're doing that 20 minute set.

2 (43m 31s):
And what happens is it's a, it's like a very natural thing that you just have to deal with is they have this great fear of not killing that hard anymore. So they don't stop doing that 20 minutes and by not stopping, they just stop evolving and they stop creating and they, they're just like, they're the, they're the 20 minute set guy. You go like, yeah, they have that great 20 minutes and then it starts to get dated and then it, you know what I mean? It, it's exactly

0 (43m 59s):
Only a fraction of the audience will know what I'm talking. There was a song that was like the song for a summer you could replace and bot with any Yeah. Like a song for a summer way back when. Yeah.

2 (44m 7s):
It's a summer hit. It

0 (44m 8s):
Was everywhere. Yeah. And then the band just disappears because they, they the one hit wonder phenomenon.

2 (44m 13s):
Yeah. Yeah. You have, you have to like, 'cause you'll, you'll see the be the very best comics will do this. And like, it's kind of something you have to wrap your head around. But then you, once you do this long enough, you go like, oh shit. The, the most elite comics are completely willing to bomb at these workout shows. Not like at their hour, huge show. Like, but like at workout shows, super elite comics will go up there and be like, I'm just gonna do, because they know that you have to be willing to eat shit to come up with something really good. And sometimes you'll watch them like bomb and, and your own Insecurities flare up.

2 (44m 53s):
You're like, oh my God, this is hor like, I can't believe like all these people are gonna be like, you suck. You know? And these guys don't care. They don't care. 'cause they know that's, they know you have to train to get stronger basically.

0 (45m 4s):
It's so beautiful. Yeah. You know, when Josh wait Skin was on this podcast and he, he also did a conversation with Rogan, which is different. And if somebody's interested in this stuff, they should check out both because they, they're complimentary conversations. But Joshua is this child prodigy chess champion and then went on to do a bunch of other things at extremely high level. He talks about the need and his lack of fear, which is very admirable for cutting ties with your previous self. Just being willing to say, you know what, like that was a NBA championship. He works with the bot Boston Celtics. So this is very relevant right now. Or but that was last year. We're a new team now. We're not the defending champions. Yeah. Or musician had a platinum album, or, or this was a particularly successful podcast run and just cut ties with it and be willing to just go completely now and future.

0 (45m 48s):
You mentioned Rick, one of the things that I've benefited so much from being friends with Rick, in addition to the fact that I just adore the guy Yeah. Is that he has so many stories about things from the past if you ask him, but he never brings that stuff up. You know, he'll, he'll indulge you if you say, tell me a story about Joe's drummer or something. Yeah. He'll, he'll tell me. Yeah. But he really lives now and forward. Yeah. And I think it's the weight skin that says, you know, you want, you don't wanna be on the train of life. You wanna be at the strapped to the front end, you know, experiencing space and time as it's unfolding, which is a very philosophical way to put this. But yeah, that challenge of cutting ties with your previous self to continue to evolve your craft is so hard. But it's exactly what you're

2 (46m 28s):
Describing. I mean, like, I had this rule, I had this rule early on that I, I think it was, I was just lucky that I told myself this, which is that I recorded an album, I think in 2010 and you know, I, you kind of wanna get like a special and a deal, but I, I didn't have one. So I, I recorded an album and I put out the album and at that time, you know, people are buying these comedy albums and you start starting to stream stuff and you also, physical copies are still a thing. 'cause this is like 2010. And so this was my work. Like I, from when I started standup to this album, this was like the best I could do.

2 (47m 11s):
Right. This was all the, all my best standup. And I put it out and like, yeah. I mean, I had some marginal success with it. Like I was selling a lot of copies or whatever. Well, I told myself that even though I was not a ticket selling comedian, that everybody who was at a show had heard that album like that. They all knew it, which was completely not true. But by doing that to myself, it made me go, well, I need a new hour. Right. So that, I was lucky that I thought that way because I could have stayed doing a lot of that album because those were like really, like, really worked out bits that would just crush. But I was just like, I'll ne I knew that like I wouldn't move on and evolve if I just kept doing them.

2 (47m 57s):
And that was a thing that I, and then I, the next thing I did was another album and I did that again. I was just like, I gotta like drop this stuff and move on. And that's, I think what helped me and, and a bunch of other comics who like, now we're in the practice of like shooting specials and then you just drop all of it and you go back to square one. But like that helps you to continue being creative in, in standup you have to just drop stuff.

0 (48m 21s):
I love it. And I think this pertains to so many basically all creative

2 (48m 24s):
Forms. Yeah.

AG1 (48m 26s):
As many of you know, I've been taking AG one daily for more than 13 years. However, I've now found an even better Vitamin mineral probiotic drink. That new and better Drink is the new and improved AG one, which just launched this month, this next gen formula from a G one is a more advanced, clinically backed version of the product that I've been taking daily for years. It includes new bioavailable nutrients and enhanced probiotics. The next gen formula is based on exciting new research on the effects of probiotics on the gut microbiome, and it now includes several specific clinically studied probiotic strains that have been shown to support both digestive health and immune system health, as well as to improve bowel regularity and to reduce bloating. As someone who's been involved in research science for more than three decades, and in health and fitness for equally as long, I'm constantly looking for the best tools to improve my Mental Health, physical health and performance. I discovered and started taking a G one way back in 2012, long before I ever had a podcast, and I've been taking it every day since. I find that it greatly improves all aspects of my health. I just feel so much better when I take it with each passing year. And by the way, I'm turning 50 this September. I continue to feel better and better, and I attribute a lot of that to a G one. A G one uses the highest quality ingredients in the right combinations, and they're constantly improving their formulas without increasing the cost. So I'm honored to have them as a Sponsor of this podcast. If you'd like to try AG one, you can go to drink AG one.com/huberman to claim a special offer right now. AG one is giving away an AG one welcome kit with five free travel packs and a free bottle of vitamin D three K two. Again, go to drink AG one.com/huberman to claim the special welcome kit with five free travel packs and a free bottle of Vitamin D three K two.

David vs Goliath Podcast (50m 11s):
Today's episode is also brought to us by David. David makes a protein bar, unlike any other. It has 28 grams of protein, only 150 calories, and zero grams of sugar. That's right, 28 grams of protein, and 75% of its calories come from protein. This is 50% higher than the next closest protein bar. David. Protein bars also taste amazing. Even the texture is amazing. My favorite bar is the chocolate chip cookie dough. But then again, I also like the new chocolate peanut butter flavor and the chocolate brownie flavored. Basically, I like all the flavors a lot. They're all incredibly delicious. In fact, the toughest challenge is knowing which ones to eat on which days and how many times per day. I limit myself to two per day, but I absolutely love them. With David, I'm able to get 28 grams of protein in the calories of a snack, which makes it easy to hit my protein goals of one gram of protein per pound of body weight per day. And it allows me to do so without ingesting too many calories. I'll eat a David Protein bar most afternoons as a snack, and I always keep one with me when I'm out of the house or traveling. They're incredibly delicious, and given that they have 28 grams of protein, they're really satisfying for having just 150 calories. If you'd like to try, David, you can go to David Protein dot com slash huberman. Again, that's David Protein dot com slash huberman.

0 (51m 25s):
On the topic of the, the finding the material humorous or being excited about the material being crucial to how it lands with the audience, I'm gonna make this very brief. When I was an undergraduate, I was interested in what makes something funny And that the psychology and neuroscience of Humor, and there wasn't a whole lot of neuroscience on it at that time, but the basic takeaway from the literature, as I recall, was that the listener thinks that a narrative is going one way, and then there's this surprise element, something you didn't anticipate coming. I think that characterizes a lot of bits in a lot of Jokes. A

2 (51m 58s):
Hundred percent. It's

0 (51m 59s):
Like, whoa, it's the pop. However, I've also seen you do bits and other people do bits where you're headed down a trail and I'm thinking, oh no, he's not going there, is he? And you go there, and that's hysterical also. Yeah. So is there a name for this or how does it

2 (52m 16s):
Work? No, I think, I mean, I, you're right. So the, the most basic necessity for I think, comedy at a very baseline level to explain it or, you know, define It, is the element of surprise, right? The surprise is like, like, so it's that thing. If you go, I know where this is going, you're not gonna react the same way. If it gets you, it's, oh my God. But that second description of like, is that person going somewhere? I think that satisfies something in human beings, which is somebody saying the thing that we all want to say. And, and you, you, you can't say it. You can't say it. You can't say it in polite society. You can't say it at a, at a nice dinner function.

2 (52m 58s):
You can't say it at work, and you're just like, God, I, this is what I think. And, you know, other people think it, and then the guy's up there and he's going like, Hey, you wanna hear some shit? Like, somebody says it and everyone goes, this is, it's becomes a release. It's a release of like, oh, saying the thing that we all wish we could say. And you're saying it, you know, it's, it's a very particular thing. 'cause it, it actually is, it works because you're in that building too. It's, it works because you're, you all have the unspoken agreement that this is a place to do this in. Right? It's still different. Like, if I just walk up to you on the street and start saying that shit, you're like, Jesus Christ, dude, like, you're a psycho.

2 (53m 39s):
Lock him up. Yeah. It's like, but like in this context, so both things are satisfy something I think in the, in the Humor realm, right? The element of surprise will always be something like the unexpected. But there's also this like condition, I think we live with where we go, we all think this, but we can't say it. And that, that's a very satisfying thing when somebody says it.

0 (54m 0s):
Well, I had the great benefit of getting a sneak peek at Bad Thoughts. Oh yeah, thanks. And it's amazing. People should definitely check it out. And I don't wanna give anything away, but the, the second one in the sequence that I watched, I thought, there's no way he's doing this. And it just kept coming at me. I was like, there's no way. I went to sleep last night, and this doesn't happen to me in a long time. I woke up laughing. Oh, yeah. Which is a wonderful experience. Yeah, It is. It is really nice. Meant there are only a few states of mind and body that you wake up and you're like, well, that was amazing, you know? And I woke up laughing. Oh, thats awesome. It's seated into my unconscious. So now I'm worried. I'm gonna say some of the things that, that you said,

2 (54m 41s):
I hope you do.

0 (54m 42s):
But one thing that occurred to me in, in watching Bad Thoughts is that you're not just a phenomenal comedian, but you're also a, a really good actor.

2 (54m 51s):
Oh, thank you.

0 (54m 51s):
Thank you. And a number of comedians seem able to act, which is surprising to me for reasons that don't make any sense to me. But I know, you know, if you look at athletes Often are terrible actors. Yes. I mean, some of the best acting that a, that athletes have done is when they're playing kind of a buffoon, or they're, they're supposed to not be able to act. Well, I think of some of like the naked gun movies, shout things

2 (55m 15s):
Like

0 (55m 15s):
Oj Right. To oj, right? Yeah. I mean, he is not a good actor. Yeah. And it worked because he wasn't a good actor. Yeah. But you're a very good actor. Thank you. And like, did you train for it?

2 (55m 24s):
I loved making people laugh. And the first thing I did like in performing was, you know, I did like a play as a kid. I did an improv troupe at 14, which is pretty young, to be in an improv troupe. I did that for like a summer. And my whole thing was I wanted to make movies. Like I had a plan when I was in college. I would, I worked, I had the communications track, so we would do tv, radio production. And when we had video projects, I would always do like comedy things. And everybody would be like, what are you doing? Why are you making this? Like, you're supposed to be making like a, a video about the soccer program, you know? And I'm

0 (55m 59s):
Like,

2 (55m 60s):
I was like, this is about like a, this is a capsule you put in your ass and it freezes your shit. Like, I would make like diarrhea commercials. And they were like, don't do that. Oh, yeah. But this is the stuff that would make, I was like making me laugh, and I wanted to make movies. And I just was like, you know, that was what I wanted to do. And then I moved out here and I, I had, I had learned, I knew that at the time, some of these big comedy movie people were a product of SNL And that those people were usually products of Second City or the Groundlings. And since I moved to la the Groundlings were big in la. The, it's the improv school and a performance plug they put on shows.

2 (56m 44s):
I was like, that's what I'll do. I'll just go to the, to the Groundlings. And I took some classes there, and I, I, I got through a few levels, but I, I had, I got into standup shortly thereafter that some of my improv friends were like, you should try standup. And I got so hooked by standup, but I, and I also saw a path, 'cause I, I was also like, well, you have to make a living, right? And the actor's life to me is so unsettling with like, you're on a show and then they're like, I don't have a gig anymore. Like, to me, the fact that standup, even though it's very, very, very low pay, especially like as you're getting into it, the fact that you can just like, keep doing it, like, to me, like made sense.

2 (57m 24s):
It like soothed me. And I, I feel like, you know, I kind of stopped training as far as I did another acting class in LA at that time, like early on. But I, I always just wanted to keep doing it, you know? And so every once in a while I would make like a short film. Like I made a few short films with friends or like, you know, comedy, comedy shorts. And I auditioned for some things. You know, I, I did small parts here and there, but I never really got to do all the, the types of things I wanted to do. So this show became like this incredible opportunity where I was like, where are we gonna tell this type of story? This type of story? Like, because it's, it's essentially a collection of short stories is what, what the show is.

2 (58m 6s):
Right? And some of them are self-contained, some of them are two part, three part. But it allowed me as an actor to play all these different roles, which was like, so fun. It felt like I was doing like 20, like the 20 years. I didn't really act that much. I got to like, throw in all these different characters in the show.

0 (58m 24s):
Well, you're a very fine actor. Thank, thank you. As you they say it was, I was like, oh, he's acting. He is. This isn't just, you know, standup. Yeah. Not, you know, standup as its own thing in previous Netflix specials. But I've also seen you do these in, in these bits in smaller clubs. Like at the belly up in Aspen. That's right. Smaller place. That's right. Where we just coincidentally wore the exact, the exact

2 (58m 46s):
Clothing.

0 (58m 47s):
So we, same flannel, same jeans, same Adidas. That was really weird.

2 (58m 50s):
That's DNA. We

0 (58m 51s):
Did not coordinate

2 (58m 52s):
DNA. That's D dude. That's

0 (58m 53s):
DNA And the, the cosmic correspondence of the butterfly effect. That

2 (58m 56s):
That's, yes. Right.

0 (58m 58s):
That's what my dad was trying to explain to me at one point. You do voices very well, in particular, the voices of your kids. Like you're able, I always think that when somebody impersonates somebody else, it's about grabbing the key elements. Like not the whole piece. They don't like turn around and like come back As, you know, like, right. Like some people can just grab a few key elements of somebody, in this case, someone we've never met. It was your sons. And we feel like we know them and we're getting the, like, what clearly are key features of their personality coming through. Yeah. Do you practice those? Or you just observe and it just is kind of embedded in you?

2 (59m 36s):
I think it's observed and embedded. And I think in that case in particular, 'cause with your kids, there's this thing that happens where you talk about your kids a lot, not on stage. In other words, you know, I'm talking to my sisters or I'm talking to a friend about the kids. So you're, you're kind of like, you get this extra practice about them because they are so much something that people always are like, how are your kids? Right? And so you're just like, oh, I got home. This little shit came in. He was like, Hey, fucking pick me up. You know? Like, like we So you, we start like doing impressions. Which one is that? That's the little guy. Oh yeah.

0 (1h 0m 9s):
He sounds like a piece of work, man.

2 (1h 0m 10s):
He is a piece of work, dude. He is something else. He's like, it's so funny. We call, sometimes we call him Little Joe Peshy. 'cause he's just like, what the fuck? We're like, yo man. Like I don't say that. How old isn't him? He's six.

0 (1h 0m 24s):
Oh my goodness. He's

2 (1h 0m 25s):
Six. And he's like, he's fucking fucking with me all day, dad. I'm like talking about, did

0 (1h 0m 29s):
You get that from you or from your wife?

2 (1h 0m 30s):
I feel like it's more her. I feel like she's got those, I'll have to ask her. She's got those Hungarian roots where they, like, when I was a kid in our house, yeah. There was not a lot of cursing, dude. Big. Oh, no.

0 (1h 0m 40s):
Big. I get wh whacked if I Oh yeah. Not, not I hit, but you know, I think if I talk back, yeah. It only happened twice in my life. Yeah. I spoke back. I won't say to which parent and I got hit.

2 (1h 0m 50s):
Okay.

0 (1h 0m 50s):
Nowadays people are like, oh, he was beaten. I'm fine. Yeah. Okay. I didn't, I don't swear at people. Yeah. Very often It is an extreme circumstance. Yeah. So, okay. So, but he swears all the time, apparently,

2 (1h 1m 1s):
Dude. I mean, to the point where we're, I mean, like, I know people, whenever you talk about, about this, people are like, you're a bad dad. I'm like, shut the fuck up. Like, you've never been around. Like these boys are, I have two little wild dudes. They're, by the way, I, I always tell share stories of the, of like extremes. Like they're sweet, adorable, loving, wonderful kids, right? But they're just two little dudes who like, I come home and they're like, torture time. They like, they call it torture time, where like, I lay down and then they just get to like, fuck me up and then they'll think they're stronger than me. And I'm like, bro, like, let me, do you wanna feel this? And I just put them in like, some crazy, you know, rap where they, they go, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay.

2 (1h 1m 43s):
I'm like, yeah. How old's the older one? He's nine. He's nine. Dude, I get home every day. He's like, check this out. He takes off his shirt and he's like, he flexes. Oh yeah. He's like, I'm gonna be so jacked by high school. I'm like, yeah. Yes, probably. And he's lean, like he's got like the, yeah, he's got the, the body for it. He's going to like, we go to the park and he's just sitting there doing pull-ups and he'll bring weights, he'll bring weights to the park. And you see like other kids, dude,

0 (1h 2m 9s):
That, that Ph to start Yeah, there's an Instagram account of this guy. I, I'll dig it up for the, for the captions. His daughter's probably 11 and she's doing pullups with a 45 pound plate and ankle weights strapped her waist. Really? And she's doing pullups to the chest and she's not, you know, built yet. Yeah. She's clearly before puberty. And she's just, but just co coo, like oh my goodness. That you just imagine like the tendon strength, the joint strength gonna be, yeah. And little gymnast perhaps. But

2 (1h 2m 37s):
He, he's so into it, talking about six packs. I feel I could have a six pack soon. I'm like, yeah, sure. Keep going, man. He goes, why don't you have one? I'm like, just fucking, he's already busting

0 (1h 2m 47s):
Your balls.

2 (1h 2m 48s):
Yeah.

0 (1h 2m 48s):
You told me a story once over dinner about your son learning piano. I dunno if you remember that. I think it was the younger one. And that it was something like, you know, like, how's piano going? And you're like, and, and here you're saying, he goes, it fucking sucks. You know? Like, that's his, so it sounds like that's his response. He's just, dude, he's ready to pop back all the time.

2 (1h 3m 7s):
Always. No, he's completely ready. He, the funniest thing that he did recently was we've, they both go to Juujitsu. Okay. And the older one's really thriving. Like he's, he has a skill for it, you know, he's, and he is doing it well, moving up. And the younger guy, I mean, you know, he's like a puppy, like just a little, it started when he was five. Like, they're just, it's just different, right? You're pretty young. And so we're, we're at class and he goes, I'm not doing this anymore. And I like, what do you mean? He goes, I'm too busy, man. And I go, what? He goes, he goes, my schedule, I go your schedule. I go, okay, tell, tell the instructor.

2 (1h 3m 48s):
So that guy comes over, you know? And he goes, Hey, how you know how, how'd you enjoy class today, Julian? And he was like, good, but I'm done. And he goes, what do you mean you're done? And he goes, I'm too busy, man. He's like, what are you, what are you too busy with? He goes, I have kindergarten, I have Spanish, I have drums. I don't have time for this. And I go, I'm sitting there like, this is insane. And that guy goes, but you know what? You gotta be strong in this world, don't you? And he goes, yeah. He goes, yeah, there's no option for being strong. So, because you can't have the option to not be strong. Right. And then Julian's like, that's right. He's like, great, so I'll see you Thursday.

2 (1h 4m 29s):
And he goes, I told you I'm way too busy now. And then he just was like, I'm not doing this anymore. I'm like, okay dude. So he's done, he's done. I mean, and I also like,

0 (1h 4m 37s):
He can really advocate for himself. He,

2 (1h 4m 39s):
He definitely advocates for himself. I just, I've never been the, you know, the type where like, you have to do these. Like, I feel like the fun thing about a, a kid, boy or girl with sports is expose them to a lot of sports. And I don't wanna like, you know, go, you have to do these, like whatever sport you like, you can do that one. Clearly. Like, this wasn't the one that drew him in enough. And I'm totally fine with it. It's like, i's cool. You wanna try tennis? You wanna try soccer? You want, like, I'll let 'em try all the sports. I, I want them to be in activities, but I'm not gonna be like, you have to do all these sports. You know?

0 (1h 5m 15s):
Meanwhile they're becoming comics in their, in their mind

2 (1h 5m 18s):
Without, oh, they're, yeah.

0 (1h 5m 19s):
Both parents are

2 (1h 5m 20s):
Comics. They're funny dudes. They are very funny. Yeah. They, and they, they love to laugh. And it's fun. 'cause you see kids when a kid says something that's genuinely funny and you start laughing, you see like, that look in their eye, they're like, oh, that was, that's cool. They just try like, do it again. And I have, they do it too much. You're like, yeah, it's not funny anymore. You can't do it that much.

0 (1h 5m 39s):
Yeah. That is a perfect cue for me to ask what I was going to ask earlier when we were talking about when you are amused by something you, you really delight in telling this bit. Yeah. It, it impacts the audience and how it lands. There's a very famous patient in neuroscience, probably the most famous patient. His, his name is. Hm. It's, they, you know, we don't know his real name. He's dead now. But he had a lesion to his hippocampus that's brain area involved in memory. And he was studied extensively for decades. And most of what we know about human memory is from this guy. All the other stuff we know from mouse studies, a little bit from monkey studies. Wow. So there's a very well-known study where you go in and, and he has no retrograde memory.

0 (1h 6m 20s):
He can't remember anything that, that you told him before. Like within a matter of seconds he forgets it completely. And they've tested this every which way. Okay. Holy shit. His brain is now in a jar. It's been scanned, et cetera. But so the, the study goes something like this. You go in and you tell Hm, a joke and he laughs and he thinks it's very funny. Then you leave, you come back and he doesn't remember who you are. This has been tested again and again. He's not fibbing. Okay. And there are a number of ways that you can, you can measure this, especially if you make it sadly like some survival based things. Like Yeah. You tell him the joke again and he laughs again, but a little less. And the next time a little less and a little less. And eventually he's like, yeah, that is not really funny.

0 (1h 7m 1s):
Yeah. Same joke. He does not remember the joke. But there seems to be some unconscious memory of the joke, which I always found fascinating. So it's like, it's almost like the, the narrative around something. We, we get saturated to it. We're all familiar with a friend at a dinner or party that tells a joke and everybody laughs and then they make the cardinal mistake, which is to tell the joke again at the same dinner. Mm. And it just burns it, it burns it there and it burns it the previous time. So what do you, I mean, I'm not asking you to be a neurologist or a neuro scientist. No. No. But what do you think is going on here? Well, not necessarily in Hm. The patient. But there's something about telling that funny punchline twice. Yeah. That you just, I feel like men, like guys seem to do this more.

0 (1h 7m 44s):
It's like, you got it. You nailed it. Yes. Do not tell the joke again.

2 (1h 7m 48s):
Well, every guy thinks he can fight. Fuck is funny and can drive. Those are the four things that every guy thinks he's awesome at. And you're lucky if you're marginal at one. Like every guy thinks. You know what I mean? Every dude is like, I can do, I can drive. I'm hilarious. I can fight chicks. Like every guy has this thing. And then the more self-aware ones go, like, I'm not good at these. I'm good at this one, so

0 (1h 8m 10s):
I'll train.

2 (1h 8m 11s):
You know what I mean? Like, that's cross train. Cross train, man, you gotta do 'em all. But the funny thing is, when you were talking about, Hm, what I thought you were gonna, the point you were making is that you go back in and it's not Hm. That is not laughing anymore at the funny thing. It's that the person telling is that you lose something. 'cause there is this thing in standup that is like a phenomenon, like, I don't have the answer to. But any comedian you talk to, will, will, will tell you that this is true. Where you go and you say this thing, right? It might be like your opening thing, you, or it could be a couple minutes in and you, you let you, you say the joke, you tell the thing and it kills. And you're like, fuck yeah, this is awesome.

2 (1h 8m 53s):
You know, like your brain just goes like, lock it in and then the next night you go and you say it and it, it, it gets laughs but it's like it's a little less. Hmm. And then this progresses, like you keep doing shows and it's like two months later and you're like, the thing's like not, it doesn't really work. And you go listen to like, like, I think I'm saying it the same way. It's like there's this, like, sometimes there's this thing where it's like a, there's like a magical quality of like, if it just streamed out of you once in this setting, in this room at this moment, there's something about the way that you said it and the timing with which you said it, that it evoked all this laughter And that for some reason this thing no longer connects and just, it doesn't register.

2 (1h 9m 41s):
And you, you try to do the analysis of why that is the case. And you, you set essentially just end up doing this. You're just like, I don't know why, but it just stopped being funny to all new audiences. It killed over here. It doesn't work here.

0 (1h 9m 56s):
So interesting. I'm obsessed with mainly two things. Time perception, and State Changes in the human brain. Like, we know so much about rem sleep and slow wave sleep. We know very little about waking states, like alert and focused or like, we have these terms, but like, there's so much more going on there. And so the question is this, we're at a club or a stadium and you're gonna go on, but I go on first, which means my bit sucks. It just sucks. 'cause I'm not a comedian. Someone else goes on, let's say Brian Holtzman, I find very funny. Yeah. Yeah. He's good, right? I mean, when he's, when he is on, he's really on. Yeah. And very funny. Holtzman goes on and does really well. Yeah.

0 (1h 10m 37s):
Who do you wanna follow?

2 (1h 10m 38s):
Holtzman?

0 (1h 10m 39s):
Because the crowd is is in a state of being ready to, to receive the Jokes.

2 (1h 10m 44s):
Exactly. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. I I feel like when you're, when you're newer, the, probably the typical answer for most comedians would be like, I wanna follow the guy that didn't do well. Right? Because then like, I can save the day, but the longer you do it, you realize that's not actually like, you actually want the guy in front of you to do well even really well. Because it does generate this thing of like, this is what this is, we're at a place of doing this. It's Jokes, it's fun. And you know, we kind of, you borrow the term, ride their wave. Like that guy just created a wave. And if you can jump on it, sometimes you have to reset.

2 (1h 11m 25s):
You have to like, you know, you're kind of letting the audience know this is a different thing. Especially if they like absolutely murder. Like, if they destroy, you're like, whoa. Like, you just kind of go, yeah, I'm a I'm a new person. And the thing is, you don't want to go, like, I'm scared that that happened. You just go, this is my thing now. You know? But, but you have them in the state of this is, we're here to laugh. Whereas the guy who just like, ate shit, they are all like, what the fuck is this? And then, you know, they basically dug a hole. So then you go up there being to, you're, you're now the person that has to like, set the table and be like, so I know that last thing felt like a fucking eulogy.

2 (1h 12m 7s):
So now I, I will try to get you out of feeling the way you feel and make you understand that it's joke time. You'll, you'll often start slower by following the person that did poorly. Right. You think it's, it's, oh, you're funny, it's now gonna go well, it, you have to like cook it back up. So following the, the good comic is always the better choice

0 (1h 12m 29s):
I'm thinking of, of giving toasts at weddings. Yeah. Like, if somebody gives a really great toast, giving the next toast, you're saying, oh, that's a hard act to follow. Yeah. No, actually it's an easy act to follow. Yeah. 'cause everyone's just kind of basking in whatever just happened. Right. It sounds sounds similar. That's right. If the State Changes whether or not we're talking about running or you're talking about Cannabis, or you're talking about whatever It is, I mean, I, I find that so much of the creative process or the constructive process, The Science or comedy or whatever is about accessing these states. And we learn how to do it through what kind of becomes an, an unconscious process. But you know how to get there. Yeah. Again and again. And so much of becoming a professional is about going through the peaks and valleys of, you know, bombing and coming back.

0 (1h 13m 10s):
Totally. You know, so I'm curious before you go out on stage now, given the size of the Crowds is just the kind of memory of what's about to happen sufficient to put you in state.

2 (1h 13m 23s):
So the thing is, the longer you do it and the more shows you do, you've kind of performed in every state. Sometimes you have to remind, I I like to remind myself that I'm at my funniest and I'm, I'm the best version of myself on stage when I have a Silly Mindset going. Meaning like, just, just like go, like goofing off, like being, like being a kid almost. So if I'm backstage and I have you in there and I'm just saying, you know, I'm like poking you, not like roasting you, but like, you know, being, tell you being silly. Right? I can tell you we're

0 (1h 13m 56s):
Related. I can tell.

2 (1h 13m 57s):
Yeah. Just like being silly. I feel like that mindset is like the best version of me to go on stage. And you can forget it by the, I forget it all the time, right. Because I've performed tired, upset, sad, anxious, like I've performed in every possible state. But I do like to, to tell myself like, oh yeah, don't forget. Kind of like, get yourself into this silly state. I also like some, like, I'm kind of an introvert, right? Like there's some, there's some true extrovert comics. Like Buddy Burt's, like a true extrovert. And like his green room before a show will have like 80 people in it. And I'm like, what? Like, I like my green room to have either just me or like two or three people and like chill energy, but still, like, it's still loose, right?

2 (1h 14m 42s):
It's, it's not like a serious thing, but like loose fun. And that gets me into the mindset of like, It is gonna be fun. I look over my Set List, you know, like I, I'll check in on, you know, you listen to like what the crowd's like, and you're like, Ooh, they sound, they sound hot. Like that kind of gets you excited. But I just try to, I try to embrace that mindset of like, let's have, like, let's have fun. Let's have fun. That, that puts me in a, in a good place as a performer on stage. Do you watch a lot of comedy? Like the greats, the, like do you I don't watch a lot of comedy anymore. I would say like, I, as a kid, I mean, I, I think the reason you kind of follow this path is because you're, you're just such a huge fan of it.

2 (1h 15m 25s):
So like, growing up I watched a lot of the, you know, evening at the improv Def Jam specials. Like a lot of, you know, it was also like specials were truly special, right? Because there was like, there's like six specials maybe a year. Eddie Murphy. Yeah, Eddie and Chris Rock and Carlin. And like all those guys would like put out a special, I mean, once every few years. And there was only a few places, you know, HBO was just like the place. And then Comedy Central became the other pla like HBO was premium, like really elite mo like huge, huge talent. And then Comedy Central was kind of everybody else. And then now the landscape's changed where, you know, we get, I don't know, man, I feel like there's 300 specials a year, right?

2 (1h 16m 9s):
Like, 'cause you can release them on, they're on Netflix, they're on Mac, they're on Hulu, they're on Amazon, they're on YouTube. Like there's just, you're bombarded with, it's great in one regard for standup. 'cause it speaks to how popular standup is and it's so accessible and it's cool that so many people can put out their stuff. But there's, it's just like overwhelming. So I'll, I'll only check out. Like, I feel like in the last couple years I've maybe seen like two specials. You know, A lot of times I'll start a special, turn it off after like 10 minutes, kinda wanna see like what someone's doing. But I, I find, I find it personally hard to finish a special, but I also find it hard to watch standup in the room, like at a club or something.

2 (1h 16m 49s):
Like, I, I get, I, I leave. Like, I don't mean like I leave the venue, I just leave the room. Like, it's just harder for me to, I, I feel anxious and I think it's really about me internalizing what I feel like the feeling is on stage. Especially if it's not, like, if it's really, really good standup, then I sit there and I go like, oh my God. And I enjoy it. But if there's like any bit of it that like, feels like maybe that's not working or that guy's anxious or whatever, it reminds me of my own feelings on stage that are like that. And I don't wanna be in that space. So I, like, I get, I leave the room and I'll just go sit somewhere else.

0 (1h 17m 28s):
I mean, so much of what we're talking about today, I just realized is Emotional Contagion. It really introduces this question. This is very reductionist thinking, but how much of the success of a bid or a joke is the emotion that the person telling it is carrying and how much of It is the actual words and content? It's probably that plus the rhythm and the timing. There's a a lot of things.

2 (1h 17m 49s):
It's a combination of those things. Yeah. But

0 (1h 17m 50s):
Emotional Contagion is real. You're talking about it as a comedian watching comedy. It, it kind of permeates you,

2 (1h 17m 57s):
Is that what it's called? Emotional Contagion.

0 (1h 17m 58s):
Yeah, Emotional Contagion. Really. Some people are more emotional emotionally permeable than others. Yeah. You know, we could put this on a spectrum. We could even put it on the, so what used to be called the, the autistic spectrum, like people who really contained in their emotions, like things don't get them. But people who are at the far end of that spectrum, they have a sensory sensitivity. You know, kids that are really like, like severely autistic, you know, the amount of noise in a typical room is overwhelming to

2 (1h 18m 27s):
That. Right. It is overwhelming. Right. They

0 (1h 18m 28s):
Actually have discovered that that's actually outside the brain. That they, their sensory endings are, are tuned differently to the world. They're experiencing the world very, very differently. You have these certain people get scared when they watch a, a movie and they, they jump when the, when the monster jumps out. Other people are like less of a startle response.

2 (1h 18m 49s):
I get startled.

0 (1h 18m 50s):
I get startled. Yeah. Yeah. I think that it's natural to get startled. I think that some people just have very kind of flat affect and some people can ride. It's like a seesaw. And for some people the hinge is tight. It doesn't necessarily mean they're calm. Some people are just like pissed off all the time and the hinge is tight. Yeah. Some people, they're happy all the time and the hinge is tight. Most people that hinge can move. And so this thing of Emotional Contagion is largely, this is what's so interesting. It's largely fed through the way things sound, somewhat through faces, but largely through the way that things sound. And then there seems to be, and not a lot's known about this yet, a kind of a sixth sense where actually the, an energy in the room can start to literally cascade from one person to the next.

0 (1h 19m 30s):
And this has been studied in animals. Yeah. With the fear response. You can literal, literally take an animal, scare it, take it out of that tube, put another animal in there, and it'll show a fear response based on something molecular in the air. Really? Absolutely. And, and they're fair. I mean, they're hormones work within us, pheromones between two members of a species. Yeah. They're clearly pheromone like effects. We haven't identified what those pheromones are. Same thing can happen in Crowds. You can get a kind of a hysteria.

2 (1h 19m 56s):
Well we, we do feel like, you know, the best, the best kind of experience as a comedian performing is where you feel like the audience is one. Right? Like they are one. Yeah. It's not 10,000 separate people. It's like this is all together. And that's kind of like, when that's going as well as it can go, that is like a incredible rush. And the feeling is that like they, they do kind ofm. It's like they started as 10,000 people and then they just kind of become this one thing and, and you're, you're kind of rocking this one entity out there together.

2 (1h 20m 36s):
Same way that like the opposite when it's like really bad, it doesn't feel like, you know, you can feel like, oh, they're, they're together in, in not liking this, this is one crowd going like, no. You know what I mean? Like that feeling is is the opposite of like bombing beyond like emptiness that you feel, but you feel it. Like they are together, they're unified in, in how they feel about this.

0 (1h 21m 3s):
This is why some people, including me, fear going to theater. My sister loves theater. We go to New York in the, in the fall for our birthdays and 'cause she loves theater. We go to theater. And if theater is great, it's like amazing. If theater is bad, like it leaves me feeling bad for the people. Like the the tone in the room is like, Ooh, it's heavy. Heavy. It's not like, just like turn off the special. It's like it's, it sucks. Yeah. It takes you to a lower

2 (1h 21m 30s):
Place. Well, live is always, it's just such a difference. Yeah. You know what I think about, I don't know if there's any science to this, but I always sometimes think about the fact that I feel like comedy specifically as an art form might be the most involuntarily subjective. Meaning that like, you know, if you look at like a photo or a piece of art, you might go like, I don't like that. And then I might educate you in, in some way about it and you kind of look at it differently. And then maybe over time you go, you know, I actually love this painting. Right. Or like, music is definitely one where you have like kind of an involuntary response, but I have not cared for music and then actually started to like it more.

2 (1h 22m 18s):
But I feel like comedy, it's like, it's not, you're not really thinking when you, like, when you laugh hard at something, you're not like, oh, I thought about it for a while and I'm gonna start laughing now. Right? Right. Like, you just, you laugh and if you don't laugh, you're just like, yeah, I don't find that funny. You don't usually come back and go, you know, now that you've talked to me about it, I'm gonna start laughing. Right. Like, it really is this experience where you just, it, it happens without, so your, your kind of brain is telling you, this is what's funny. Right. Like, it, it's happening like separate from you and there's no faking it. Like you're either laughing or you're not. You got, if you laugh really hard, it's like this, it's this great experience, but you can't convince someone to laugh that hard.

2 (1h 23m 3s):
A

0 (1h 23m 3s):
Very important point that had never occurred to me. I love art history in part because I like art. I've always liked art. Yeah. But by taking an art history class, I like literally have fallen in love with certain artists in their paintings. And I, I look at certain paintings completely differently now, As you, As you point out on the basis of what I know about what the art represents, the history of the artist. Like if a joke isn't funny to me or a bit isn't funny, I don't care what the process was Right. For that bit. I'm like, it's just not funny to me.

2 (1h 23m 36s):
It's just not. Yeah.

0 (1h 23m 36s):
It seems like it's one of the purest kind of yum, yuck or meh kind of things, which is another point of neuroscience. You know, the nervous system has degrees of this, but it basically bins things very quickly into like, yum. Like, this is awesome or hilarious or whatever. Yuck. Like, ugh, no. And kind of meh. Yeah. Like they, there, there's not a lot of vari within each one of those bins. There's a lot of variation. Yeah. Love, love, love, hate, hate, hate. But then, you know, but your brain makes a decision really quickly, quickly, very quickly. Yuck or meh.

2 (1h 24m 6s):
Right, right. And, and and like, especially with, with different arts, right? Like, I mean, literally you look at the photo and your brain kind of tells you, right? Like, I just don't feel like most of the time you're not gonna go back to that and have a much different response. Right. I mean, with comedy, you're, you're not gonna do a response with art. Like, I, I also did, I did Spanish art history when I, when I was studying in Madrid, and they would take us to the Palo Museum and give us like our lectures in front of the pieces of art. And you just, yeah. Your brain starts to not just appreciate you start to fall in love with the paintings and you go like, oh, I view this differently.

2 (1h 24m 49s):
That type of experience doesn't really can't happen with comedy. I'm not gonna be like, start laughing dude, listen to how this, you know what I mean? Like, it's just, It is what It is. Your brain. It's so quick. Whether or not it makes you laugh.

0 (1h 25m 4s):
And if something's not funny, if you tell me he toiled on this for 40 years, I'd be like, well then it especially sucks. It's really shit. Whereas, whereas As you show me a sculpture I might not appreciate And that you sort of explain what went into that. Yeah. You can develop at least an appreciation for you. Well, look, that's interesting. You

2 (1h 25m 19s):
Know, versions of this happen all the time, especially now because everything's shareable. Where like, your friend goes check this out, and you watch the thing and you're like, okay. They're like, isn't that the funniest thing you've ever seen? You're like, no. They're like, you didn't like that? No. And that's kind of like how it ends. They're like, yeah, but you know, he's saying like that he's late because he, I'm like, yeah, it's not, I don't, I'm not laughing, dude. I dunno what to tell you. And then they go, oh, okay. But they had a different experience with it that you can't, you can't like articulate and intellectualize the experience to someone where they go, oh yeah, now I think it's funny.

0 (1h 25m 51s):
Well, I think this gets back to hm. And this idea that there's a subconscious, you know, just an unaware process that dictates whether or not something's funny or not. Yeah. It tickles our brain below the level of, of like precise understanding. And I'm so fascinated by this. 'cause As you point out, there just aren't other things like this. You could say this about people, like, oh, liked this person right away, didn't like them. Yes. But in general, the more that we learn about people, this is why all the efforts to try and, you know, erase racism, for instance, the more you learn about a culture, the more you tend to like the people of that culture. Culture.

2 (1h 26m 25s):
Yeah.

0 (1h 26m 26s):
Even if you were arch enemies for, for, you know, decades or hundreds of years before, right. There's just the way the human brain works. But with comedy, it's like a, it's chem, it feels like, it's like chemistry. It

2 (1h 26m 37s):
Does, you know,

0 (1h 26m 37s):
And and of course you could say, well, you like or don't like the comic, but I have to imagine that you, whether you like it or not, probably represent the, the like bad boyfriend or the abusive dad to somebody or the, or the friend that they loved in college. Let's make it positive too. Or the guy they like to be around. I mean, you, you don't know that people's relationship to you.

2 (1h 26m 57s):
You never know.

0 (1h 26m 59s):
And so the Humor may land or not land depending on like all sorts of unconscious stuff going on

2 (1h 27m 4s):
In them so much. And you realize too that like you could have a joke about a teacher, you know what I mean? Like, you're just like, it's part of your bit. You're not thinking of that. And like you saying, that has a ripple effect that you don't realize to, to different people in the audience for, for dozens of different reasons. You could have just said the word teacher and the person's like, you know, I am a teacher. And then that, that, that's pleasing to them. They feel seen the other person hated their teacher. The, you know what I mean? They start thinking about like all these little things where you go like, I just said one word about this. And you don't realize that it, it triggers other thoughts in people's minds.

Function Health (1h 27m 42s):
You know, I'd like to take a quick break and acknowledge one of our Sponsors function. Last year I became a function member after searching for the most comprehensive approach to lab testing function. Provides over 100 advanced lab tests that give you a key snapshot of your entire bodily health. This snapshot offers you with insights on your heart health, hormone health, immune functioning, nutrient levels, and much more. They've also recently added tests for toxins such as BPA exposure from harmful plastics and tests for PFASs or forever chemicals function. Not only provides testing of over a hundred biomarkers key to your physical and Mental Health, but it also analyzes these results and provides insights from top doctors who are expert in the relevant areas. For example, in one of my first tests with function, I learned that I had elevated levels of mercury in my blood function. Not only helped me detect that, but offered insights into how best to reduce my mercury levels, which included limiting my tuna consumption. I'd been eating a lot of tuna while also making an effort to eat more leafy greens and supplementing with NAC and acetylcysteine, both of which can support glutathione production and detoxification. And I should say, by taking a second function test that approach worked. Comprehensive blood testing is vitally important. There's so many things related to your mental and physical health that can only be detected in a blood test. The problem is blood testing has always been very expensive and complicated. In contrast, I've been super impressed by function, simplicity and at the level of cost It is very affordable. As a consequence, I decided to join their scientific advisory board and I'm thrilled that they're sponsoring the podcast. If you'd like to try function, you can go to Function Health dot com slash huberman function currently has a wait list of over 250,000 people, but they're offering early access to huberman podcast listeners. Again, that's Function Health dot com slash huberman to get early access to function.

0 (1h 29m 32s):
Let's talk about Crowd Work. Yeah. Fascinated by it. Yeah. Very, very distinct aspect of the comedy experience. You know, I mean, at a big rock concert, I mean the, the singer might like put out a fist to someone in the audience or even let somebody sing for a moment, but maybe let someone up on stage. But Crowd Work is like, you're really giving up a lot of control. Yeah. Right. If you ask a question, I mean, you have to be able to work off whatever comes back. Do you do Crowd Work?

2 (1h 29m 59s):
I mean, I, I feel like Crowd Work is just part of the arsenal of skills you have over time as a community, you have to be able to improvise. You have to be able to handle Crowd Work, you have to be able to write material. You have, you know, you have to be able to do all those things. I don't go up and do like Crowd Work shows. Like some people they're like, this is a Crowd Work show, but I've been doing standup like, you know, 23 years. And especially when you're in the club system, when you're an unknown and you're just doing weekends and people are drunk, like Crowd Work just becomes part of how you do it. Like it, you don't have an option to not, you could just not develop the skillset and then just die up there.

2 (1h 30m 42s):
But like, you know what I mean? It's like, it's a necessity. So at this point, like I feel like I wanna go on stage with like, I want to do X, Y, z, I wanna execute these things. I want to get these these Jokes out. I wanna say these things. But you're never ever to the point where you go And that therefore I am removed from having to do any type of crowd. Because Crowd Work is a, is usually it's a response to something happening. You're being heckled somebody saying something. You know, there's this thing that like if you're in a huge venue, you, you don't want to actually go like, Hey, what's going on with you buddy? Right. Because there's somebody up in the 300 section who's like, I don't know what's going on.

2 (1h 31m 23s):
But the other side of It is, you cannot ignore the obvious. Meaning if a fight breaks out, if like somebody throws something, if somebody is like screaming and you just go like, I'm just not gonna, I'm gonna act like that's not happening. I'm gonna keep doing standup like what I wanted to do. Then people go like, this is weird. Right. Because this person's ignoring the obvious. Right.

0 (1h 31m 53s):
You're no longer connected to them in the same way.

2 (1h 31m 55s):
Exactly. Yeah. They know that like there's a disconnect now. Like you're ignoring that. Like, so that's how like, you stay in kind of having, you have to maintain the skillset. Some people make it more of an emphasis of their show and there's like really, really good people at doing that. I feel like it's also like part's more of like the DNA of New York comics too. Like that, that you'll see. I, I've always thought that like there, the, the level of proficiency there is really high in that scene. More of a back and forth, you know,

0 (1h 32m 28s):
See 'cause of small venues. I, yeah. I go to the Comedy cellar when I'm out there. Yeah. I don't know if that's, it's still one of the main places.

2 (1h 32m 34s):
Oh, absolutely. Yeah.

0 (1h 32m 34s):
There's a better one. Let me know. But my sister's always like gonna go to the cellar again.

2 (1h 32m 37s):
Yeah. Cellar's fantastic. And we

0 (1h 32m 39s):
Have our favorite nights. There actually were nights where it was pretty bad and we can laugh about that. Yeah. But there've been a, a few nights there where it just killed. Yeah. And actually there was one night and I asked my sister this happened. Chappelle just like leaves radio City hall shows up with his entra and just like hops up on stage. Yeah. And just, that only happens in New York City. Yeah. I don't think you, that really happens in Los Angeles terribly often. He's

2 (1h 33m 2s):
Done that quite a few times. He just

0 (1h 33m 4s):
Like rolls in. Yeah.

2 (1h 33m 5s):
He's done that in LA a a number of times he's done in San Francisco a bunch. Like I'm saying, like it's pretty well known. You know, he'll come into the story. That's his thing. Yeah. He like, he loves the stage and sometimes he'll be up there like, legitimately like three or four

0 (1h 33m 18s):
Hours. Yeah. He stayed, we ended up going home because Yeah. Eventually he just called in a night and we were Yeah. Leaving and his team was like, you're really gonna leave. We'd had enough. But he, it was just kind of unbelievable. Yeah. To me that this stage of his career that he was just gonna wander in and, and start doing comedy. Yeah. But it speaks, I think it speaks to the, the intimacy of those small clubs. It does. Yeah. I mean, it's still one of the few venues where like you can see greats like, I got to see you at the belly up in Aspen. That's a small-ish venue. Yeah.

2 (1h 33m 48s):
It was fun. Yeah. Oregon

0 (1h 33m 49s):
Go to a stadium. What's the largest stadium crowd you've done? It is more than, you know,

2 (1h 33m 52s):
The biggest crowd I did was like a little over 17,000 at a climate pledge arena in Seattle. Yeah.

0 (1h 33m 59s):
It's a huge difference of scale there. Yeah. Not many public facing things occupy that, those levels of scale. I have a question about kind of cultural standards. Yeah. And what's really funny, so if you look back to comedians where at a time where like cursing on stage wasn't allowed like kind of pre Lenny Bruce. Yeah. Right. Is any of that comedy funny? Meaning, you know, now there's been this kind of expansion of kinda what, what you can say, even just cursing and, and so like if we look at earlier, we were talking about working out, you know, like bodies looked very, like muscular bodies looked very different in films in the, in the forties.

0 (1h 34m 41s):
Like you'd say, well that guy, that person isn't very big by today's standard, but you'd say they're very fit, right? Yeah. Or she was very beautiful and very and very sexy in the seventies, but very different looked than like nineties and two thousands. So standards change for what's considered ideal. Yes.

2 (1h 34m 57s):
The male one, by the way is, is hilarious for the leading man of like the forties and fifties. Oh yeah.

0 (1h 35m 2s):
They were very slender. Now they're like nuts. Well,

2 (1h 35m 4s):
I mean like, not superheroes. They'd be like, they'd be like slender and also like not even very well defined And that they'd be like, this is the stud of the, you know what I mean, of the movie, like a guy who's not wearing a shirt and you're like, this guy's not active. Right. And you're like, no, this is like the stud of the movie. Right. Like, right. That's just a different time. Just

0 (1h 35m 23s):
A different time. Different standard. And then of course, you know, standards of women's bodies have changed sometimes more voluptuous, sometimes, like in the nineties it was the kind of wavy look. Yes. And these things mirror what's going on in society to some degree. But if you listen to comedy pre Lenny Bruce pre swearing, is any of it really funny to you?

2 (1h 35m 44s):
Well, to me I feel like I, I would probably listen to most of that with like, that mind of, 'cause what happens with comedy too is to be fair to those people is you end up hearing so many versions of what they did. Things that are just derivative of other styles and types of Jokes and types of performances that by the time, like if I heard this guy in 1945 doing these Jokes and he's killing in this room, you know, I would go, I'd probably hear the joke and be like, oh yeah.

2 (1h 36m 25s):
Like I, I know this joke. Like I, I, I know 10 versions of that joke 'cause I've heard them, so I, hearing it just doesn't make me laugh. Right. Even

0 (1h 36m 35s):
Though it's the original,

2 (1h 36m 36s):
Even though it's the original. Yeah. Huh. Because I feel like, I feel like that even happens with like, well-known comedians. Like if, if like, I was born in 79 and so like my like exposure, like I, I missed, I I wasn't like really conscious and aware of like the prior era. Right. And like, he's like a god in standup.

0 (1h 37m 0s):
He's considered the, the, the best comedian ever. I mean by most it seems by

2 (1h 37m 5s):
A lot of people, you know, I

0 (1h 37m 6s):
Mean he's on the Mount Rushmore of comedy.

2 (1h 37m 8s):
He's definitely on the Mount Rushmore. But I felt like by the time that I heard prior, I had heard so many people that were influenced by Pryor that hearing the original version, it wasn't like, it wasn't like I'm doubled over laughing. Like I, I'm hearing every other version, like they're clearly ins inspired and, and you know, taking from him. But, so now I hear the original and I go like, oh, I get that. That's the, that's the version of that. They can happen with comedy films too. It's like you watch Animal House, if you hadn't seen it before and you see it now and you've watched a lot of comedies, you might just go like, oh, I get how this is the blueprint.

2 (1h 37m 48s):
Because I've seen so many people take from this that now when you see the original, you'll be like, oh, you're like, yeah, but you don't realize that's the first time it was done. Like these Jokes were done here originally. Everybody took from them, you know? So I don't think that I would probably end up laughing very hard at the pre Lenny Bruce comic, just for the reason I said though, just because it's been done. I've heard so many versions of it.

0 (1h 38m 13s):
So it seems with comedy, unlike with music or poetry or books, there isn't that much carry forward. So for instance, I mean, I was very, very young if, and in some cases not born when the Rolling Stones were doing their great work or The Beatles or Elvis. Right. But that music is awesome. Yeah.

2 (1h 38m 32s):
Yeah. That's

0 (1h 38m 32s):
Different. So it it, the fact that many people have taken bits and pieces from those, like you can't create an amazing clash song the way the Clash did it. Like they did it best. Right. And it will always, like Death or Glory will be like, I don't care how many songs were derivatives of that, that song still

2 (1h 38m 49s):
Kills. Yeah.

0 (1h 38m 50s):
And so comedy seems different.

2 (1h 38m 52s):
I think it's different in that regard. I I definitely think it's different. I think that, you know, it's, it's one of those things where like, it's, it's always shifting. Also, like what's funny has, it's, it really is directly related to what's happening in the real time. Like, in the time you're living in, you can see whether it's from standup or movies, Jokes that aren't fun, that were like very funny in 1982, in 1995 in 2007, that you go, it's just kind shifted, right. It's like, it's not, it's not funny anymore. Like, and I don't only just mean because it's not like politically correct, I just mean like, there's this unspoken thing that happens, right?

2 (1h 39m 39s):
Where like, you're laughing at something and then you kind of go like, Hey, we collectively are, don't find, this is just not funny anymore. So actually a lot of those things might even strike you as not only like not great. You might just be like, that is, that's not funny at all.

0 (1h 39m 55s):
Yeah. I once went to this thing in San Francisco around New Year's and they, they literally wheeled out, is it like Henny Youngman or Benny Youngman or something. And he was doing these knock knock Jokes and he was probably in his late nineties, he was forgetting the punchlines, but occasionally he'd nail one. Yeah. It was not funny. Yeah. It was almost embarrassing, you know, but, but you were like, wow, this guy still like, thinks it's funny. He was still going, so there was some Amusement, but you looked at the older people in the crowd Yeah. And they were like, oh my God, it's bringing me back. Yeah.

2 (1h 40m 21s):
So some people

0 (1h 40m 22s):
Were like, oh my goodness. But, you know, no one else was laughing. Right. But as you're describing, some people might look at some comedy, I'm not gonna name names 'cause I'm not versed enough in, in comedy, but from the seventies or eighties and be like, yeah, that's just kind of like raw, but like, it's not, it doesn't really do anything for me anymore.

2 (1h 40m 37s):
I'll tell you, like, this is a very simple like example, but like, I re I can recall that like 20 years ago if a guy was in a club and there was two guys sitting there in the front row together or whatever, a lot of times would be like, what are you guys a couple? Mm. And that, that would sometimes prompt laughs people would laugh. They would be like, oh, you're a couple. And like today, if somebody was like, what are you guys? A couple? They'd be like, yeah. And everyone would be like, okay. Right. Like, it would be like, yeah. Like it was considered like, oh, it's funny you're implying that they're romantic couple and like, I feel like just the way society evolves today, people would be like, and

0 (1h 41m 18s):
Oh yeah. I mean, growing up when you, I mean, I'm a little bit older than you are. Yeah. I remember like the first gay characters showing up in film and reality tv, it was like a huge deal. Yeah. Right. And then, so things have really changed. So what, what, what is, yeah. Things have really changed.

2 (1h 41m 33s):
Like, no one's ever been funnier than Eddie Murphy ever. They, I think he's, he is like him and his prime of being funny. Like, there's just nothing. He's, he's a, he's a total prodigy once in a lifetime type of talent. Right. Like, so funny, if you put like, delirious on for a 21-year-old today, they would be like, what the fuck is happening? Like it's, there's things in it that are just, they're just too dated now. You know what I mean? Yeah. Just concepts that are, he's still funny as shit, but like those bits will not land like they would in 83. They just wouldn't,

0 (1h 42m 9s):
Let's talk about the darkness of comedy. I once had the experience of going to the Comedy Cellar with some friends, and this guy got up there, I don't remember his name. And it was super dark. I mean, it was like clowns with vans doing ter. I mean, it was just like so dark. And the only thing that was hysterical about it was the fact that he seemed freaked out by it too. Like, what he was saying was like horrible.

2 (1h 42m 32s):
He was saying horrible,

0 (1h 42m 34s):
Horrible things about that had gone through his mind. Yeah. But the fact that he thought it was horrible was what was funny. Sure. And we're like, whoa. Like, we walked outta there just from like, we felt like we'd been transported someplace really unhealthy. Yeah. And I was like, man, I feel like I need a shower after that. That was intense and scary. And like,

2 (1h 42m 53s):
This is my favorite thing, by the way.

0 (1h 42m 55s):
Whoa. And then we had the experience of running into him and his girlfriend later that night, and we were like, oh my God. And he just took off. He just like, could not handle the reflection about what had just happened in the really Oh yeah. No, he just, I'm sure he enjoyed the Yeah. The attention. Right. He's a performer. So, but two things occur to me around that example. One is a guy who's really dark on stage seemed like a very loving guy, at least out in public with his girlfriend.

2 (1h 43m 22s):
It's almost always the case. Yeah.

0 (1h 43m 24s):
And the other one is that where he took us and where he went was so down in the dungeon. Like I still kind of get a weird feeling in my body thinking about it. Yeah. But his shock at his own words Yeah. Was absolutely hilarious. Hysterical and brilliant. And it was like, Hey, let's go down into the darkness of human nature. Yeah. I'm gonna show you how dark it really is, and then I'm gonna leave and you're just like left spinning. And it, it still sits in my body. Yeah. We're talking about that visceral experience. Yeah. Still sits in my body. I don't know what to make of it.

2 (1h 44m 0s):
It's incredible. A that first of all, that he can access It is great. It is. As if you're talking about just like, as the art form, like the, the best thing to do as an artist, any type of artist is I think acknowledge and produce with the dark thoughts. In other words, don't act like they're not there because they're in everyone. And then put it into your art. In other words, it's, if you go like, I wanna fucking rob a bank. Like, it's better if you're an artist to channel that into art. Whether you write a story about it, you paint a painting, you write a song, you talk about, you know, as a comedian, you're like your fantasy of doing it than to actually do it.

2 (1h 44m 41s):
So it's actually, you're channeling it in the healthier option. And I also feel like in 20 some years of doing this, dude, the best people as people that I've ever met are the darkest comedians on stage. And the absolute most terrifying people are the super clean guys. Like really? Yeah, dude. Because they don't acknowledge the darkness. The darkness exists in all of us. They, It is The Dalai Lama has dark thoughts. Yeah. Like, it's just,

0 (1h 45m 13s):
Jung said this, I mean,

2 (1h 45m 14s):
It's just the way It is.

0 (1h 45m 15s):
It's humans,

2 (1h 45m 16s):
It's human beings. Like we all, now some of us have not as, you know, present and overwhelming dark sides and thoughts, but there is darkness in everybody. The thing is, I feel like what some of the clean comics do is the lack of acknowledging it means that that darkness has to come out in some other way. It just does. So how does it come out? Well, it might come out in their personal life. I mean, not good. Yeah. I mean, there's very famous cases of don't, don't curse. And then, you know, you're doing some pretty dark things. Like that's, that's a real thing, man, that like, Hey, I'm gonna talk about cookies and where do you put your socks?

2 (1h 46m 1s):
I can't find my other sock. Like, that's your fucking bit talking about socks. Okay. What are you actually really up to? Because the thing is, those guys, some of those guys, look, I'm not saying they're not fun. There's very, very funny clean comics. Some of those guys are right on the line of like, man, if you would just acknowledge some of this stuff, it would be even funnier. Like you're just, and then you don't know how that darkness is gonna show itself because it's probably gonna show itself in a way that's not so pleasant.

0 (1h 46m 31s):
Yeah. I, I completely agree with you. I have a friend who's a very, very well-known musician. I won't say what genre and what I love about his music is it encompasses every range of emotion. Yeah. Every range. And I've seen him play to huge Crowds and just get so pissed. And I've seen him do love songs, hate songs, revenge songs, like just everything. Yeah. But in person, he's like the kindest Yeah. Dude. Ever.

2 (1h 47m 1s):
I mean that's,

0 (1h 47m 1s):
And it's, he's so grounded. He and his, he and his partner are like the sweetest people. And she's got it too. She's an artist too. And some of her art, you're like, oh my God. And then you meet her and you're like, so kind, so trustworthy. Yeah. So exactly, exactly what you're describing. They're, they're in touch with it. They know how to channel it.

2 (1h 47m 21s):
Yeah. It's, it's, I think it's about doing that. And I think some people, I look, I think it's also a natural human instinct to not want to acknowledge or play with the dark thoughts that you have. Right. Like it's, you don't want to sometimes 'cause you go, that's an ugly side. And I don't want, I don't want to use that for my art or even acknowledge that it's there. But I think it's definitely the better way to go is to actually work with it.

0 (1h 47m 52s):
A lot of comics die of drug overdoses. It's like, not these days as much. It seems like there's now like the, the healthy comics. You're one of 'em. Yeah. And I don't know what the numbers are compared to music, like rock rock musicians or something. But if I compare to like, science where I compare to like law. Okay. One could say, you know, in law offices there used to be a lot of drug use, especially in big cities and this kinda stimulants Yeah. But let's just focus on comedy for the moment. Do you think that comedy pulls from a, a group that has a larger percentage of people that are just struggling with inner turmoil and they rely on substances to kind of manage?

0 (1h 48m 33s):
Or are the substances part of the creative process for people Writers too? I mean, it used to be that many writers were drinkers. If you ever want to like a, like a voyage through alcoholism, read about the habits of writers. Yeah. Not all of them, but many of them drank a lot. A lot. A lot. A lot. Yeah. Amphetamines sometimes. But it was like drinking. It was like part and parcel with the writer's life. Sadly, that's not the case now. But yeah. What are your thoughts about, I mean,

2 (1h 48m 57s):
I, I

0 (1h 48m 57s):
Substances and comedy and comics?

2 (1h 48m 60s):
I think it's a, it's a combination of things. I feel like, you know, a lot of comedians like that world pulls from certainly people with traumatic backgrounds. There's a lot of Mental Health issues with comedians. There's a lot of clinically depressed comedians. There's comedians that come into it with like, severe anxiety, for instance, severe depression, different Mental Health things. So usually even outside of comedy, if you're talking about people with this type of mindset, you know, the, the, these, these issues, you know, substances kind of come with that. People trying to regulate and deal with, with those issues to, to also, you know, throw some more gas on that.

2 (1h 49m 45s):
You're talking about an environment that is a nightlife environment where these things are kind of readily available and it can, you know, it can be fun. It can, it can make you feel like you're, you're helping your, your art form by partaking in these things. And then it's really just like with most things, you just kind of, you see that some people go, oh, it's getting right now, it's getting in the way. And they kind of acknowledge that like, I'm better off without this. And then some people are just too far gone in it, right. Where they just, they, they're addicts. They become, we have a lot of addicts in, in comedy. It's just one of those factors.

2 (1h 50m 26s):
Like you just, you see it a lot. People that are, are complete hardcore addicts. So that coupled with Mental Health things and, and the fact that we're, we're, we're up late and we're with people that are also into nightlife. I think all that together, you get a lot of substance abuse. A lot.

0 (1h 50m 44s):
Why is Cynicism so unfunny?

2 (1h 50m 47s):
I don't, is it, I mean, I feel like Cynicism with presented in the right way, like a cynical person can be funny. I think what problem with, with Cynicism is that it's, it's really not, ultimately there's nothing hopeful in it. Cynicism takes away any feeling that like things could get better.

0 (1h 51m 15s):
Yeah. Like in the world of improv, the Yes. And I feel like Yeah, that's true. I feel like Cynicism, like shuts it down. Well

2 (1h 51m 20s):
That's true. In in, in, in the case of, I'm just saying like, some people have this cynical kind of take on things that are still like, funny people. Yeah. If you negate a thought in improv, the whole thing is over, it just dies. You know, if you're like, it's hot, you're like, I'm cold. You're like, okay, like, we're not really gonna do this then. Huh? Like, you kind of have to like, add to it. But that's interesting. Yeah. I, I mean, if you're, if you're a cynical, like a truly a cynical person, because I guess the thing you find in comedy is there's a lot of like foe emotion, right. Like the foe, angry, the, you know what I mean? Like, you put on this thing to sell your bit, that you, you sell an emotion with it too.

2 (1h 52m 2s):
So somebody can like, manipulate that Cynicism with Humor. But I think if you're genuinely a cynical person, what you are really is is usually someone that like, actually people don't want to be around. Right. Like the, the very genuinely cynical person, another way to describe them is just negative. And that total buzz kill. Yeah. Yeah. So you just kind of go like, I don't wanna be around that. I think ultimately the best mode to be in for comedy is like, you kind of actually want to be like inclusive. You want, you know what I mean? You're kind of like, right. You're saying things that, that people want to nod along with.

2 (1h 52m 43s):
And if you're just like, shit's not gonna work out. It never does. No one's like, this is fucking fun, man. Like, this is really funny. So that, that probably like has some factor in it. I mean Yeah. You, you learn early on at least I felt like it that there's these really cynical comics. But the thing is, I'm not talking about like the faux thing in a performance. Like, they're just like that and you can feel the energy vortex that they are and you kind of go like, I got, I gotta like not be around this guy. Right. Because early on, especially, you rely so much on hope.

2 (1h 53m 24s):
The fact that you signed up to do this thing that, you know, on paper it seems insane. Like you're gonna tell Jokes for a living. Were you outta your mind? That's what people would say to me. Like, they're like, were you crazy? I would say it

0 (1h 53m 35s):
Worked out.

2 (1h 53m 36s):
I mean, I got very lucky And that it worked out. But you worked, I

0 (1h 53m 39s):
Worked very hard. I did work hard, extremely hard.

2 (1h 53m 41s):
I worked, I did work very hard at it. But that, that is the thing where you go like, oh, this is an insane path kind of to, to go down. Like, I can't have the guy who's next to me who's also a comedian being like this shit, you know, they're never gonna pick us. They're never gonna, this, the shit never works out. You're like, yeah, I can't have that mantra in my head all the time. And you have to like part ways with those people. 'cause they, they are like a virus, you know? They're a virus. Like, so yeah. You're, you're right in observing. Like it's not funny. I think it's more like that. It's just, it's not productive to be around truly cynical people

0 (1h 54m 21s):
Along the lines of what we're calling Emotional Contagion. I realized I'm not aware of any kind of like duet comics. I know it sounds kind of silly, but in every other genre, like with music, right? People play alone. They play with a band, they play like together. Like you offset voices. I mean, but maybe in comedy, stage comedy that is the audience is the other member of the, of calling a duet, which sounds so silly, but you, you get the idea. Yeah. That, that they're the one that you're, you're you're resonating with And that you're, you're playing off of and they're, they're riding with you. Because I mean, I've had the experience of going to the comedy store. I was there last year.

0 (1h 55m 2s):
Tim Dylan did a bit, well he, he went out for like 20, he came out for 20 minutes. Yeah. And, and just murdered. And some of that's in his, his recent special just murdered. There was just, and he like crescendoed the whole crowd. And then just like, in typical Tim, when I just like walked out, you, you're like, whoa. And you feel like you were part of something. Yeah. Even though you were a passive recipient of what was going on, or participant. So maybe that's where there It is. Have there ever been two people that get up there and kinda like riff together?

2 (1h 55m 31s):
Yeah.

0 (1h 55m 31s):
Oh yeah. And do it well,

2 (1h 55m 33s):
Yeah. There's a couple twins that do that. Okay. Yeah. It's a good observation that it, It is like the audience is the other, you know, participant, right? It's you and the, but then like the Lucas Brothers and the Sklar brothers are, they're both, they're twin brothers and they go up there and you, because I'm, I'm, you've probably done something about the twin phenomena, like how these guys operate, both of these sets of twins together is It is like an experience where you're like, whoa. The way they don't go like always like set up punch, like the setup sentence can come half out of one brother and the oth and it's seamless.

2 (1h 56m 15s):
Like, it's like, it's like when you hang out with, you ever hung out with twins and they really answer in unison, even though they're not looking at each other and they're saying like the same thing. Like, that's how these guys work on stage. And It is, you know, it it, it gets you where you, like, you have questions afterwards. You're like, wait a minute, did you guys, like, how did you set that up? Because it's, it's so seamless and they're literally like going back back, like back and forth, back and forth, back and forth. And it feels like you had to go, Hey, when I say and make sure you but it, it's another level beyond that. Like, they really flow. Even their talk over each other feels like it's perfectly done. Like this. You're hearing the end of this guy's sentence, the next guy's steps on top of it.

2 (1h 56m 58s):
But you hear him clearly and back and forth.

0 (1h 56m 60s):
I have to check

2 (1h 57m 0s):
It out. Those guys are like, it, It is like a phenomenon to watch them, to watch them work. It's re it actually is really, really cool.

0 (1h 57m 7s):
I'm coming to the conclusion that by being a audience member in comedy, you one is experiencing a kind of an empathy with what the, the comic is experiencing. And that's kind of where we're getting here. Like, I didn't plan this out, but you know, you have to feel it. It's gotta be real for, for the comic. The audience can sense that the delight that the, the silliness that you're bringing to it. Like, so much of that is in, in the audience's nervous system as they're getting it. And it, it's clear to me that like, comedy is the one way, I mean you could say this about music, but like you said so different because so much of it seems spontaneous.

2 (1h 57m 50s):
It does. And I also feel like, you know, like Buddy Kirk Fox, he always, he's like a great comedian. He always says this thing like when he is on stage, he's like, I plan on being open, inviting, you know, hoping to leave the stage a, a better, you know, leave the room a better place. Like, but this thing about being open and inviting vulnerable is like, it's a very real thing. Like you, you learn it As you do it. You start off pretty much operating in fear as a standup. Right. You're terrified. You're terrified that it's, you're not gonna do well. The longer you do it, you get more comfortable being up there. You realize that if you're vulnerable, if you're willing to be vulnerable, which takes like effort and some, you know, some like courage, the audience senses this on an unspoken level and will go with you more places and will definitely laugh more and, and will be like basically be on your side.

2 (1h 58m 46s):
Right. And if you don't learn to do that, it's a different type of performance. You are basically like going up there with like, I'm the boss. You know, like if you're going up there like I'm telling you what's up. They still might laugh at things, but they don't leave going like, I care for this guy. Right. I empathize with him. And if you can learn to be vulnerable on stage, your performances will get exponentially better. And honestly you'll you'll get way crazier. Laughs

0 (1h 59m 16s):
So interesting. The reason I love comedy so much is that a, it lets me forget about the outside world. Yeah. While hearing about the outside world. And I think stage comedy is especially powerful. And before we sat down and had this conversation, we were talking about how like some people think, you know, they're like, oh my friend is super funny, way funnier than any of the comics, but like a professional athlete or a non-professional athlete in this case, can they do it on stage? Can they, can they do the dance?

2 (1h 59m 45s):
Right? That's the thing. Yeah. That is, that is the, the, the main question is, 'cause sometimes, like I told you, people will be like, you know, my friend Greg is hilarious. He's like one of the, he's funnier than any of those guys on stage. And you're like, I believe you. And you might hang out with him and be like, this dude is hilarious. Like he's really funny. The difference is that can he do, can he be that funny when it's just him with a microphone in front of people and, and, and take who he is in real life and be that on stage. That's ultimately the goal for every comedian.

2 (2h 0m 25s):
Like they say that like, the longer you do standup, your goal is to be who you are off stage, on stage. Right. Like, it's 'cause you, it's impossible when you start, when you start you are funny with your friends and then you get on stage and you know, you kind of freeze and you're, you're, you're trying to like convey this is who I am. 'cause you're, what you're doing is you're going, this is how I see things. That that's what your, that's what your performance is. Like, this is funny to me. I'm gonna tell you how I see it. And that's why it's funny, some guys that are, are women, I'm saying like, just people that are very, very funny off stage, just, they can't do that to an audience. They're just, they're funny to be around in life, but they're not performers.

2 (2h 1m 8s):
I mean, there's an an element to it that is like, can you get up in front of strangers and make them laugh? They don't know you. You have to convey who you are in a moment and make them laugh. That's a different thing. It's, it's not unlike a guy that kills it at the YMCA when you play ball. And it's like, okay, well like let's put you in an NBA arena. Right? Like, can you actually play with these guys? It's a, it's a totally different thing. Look, some can't. Everybody who ends up being a good, a good standup was super funny to somebody off stage years ago. Right. They just worked at it and they were able to translate it. Some people just can't translate it.

0 (2h 1m 49s):
Do you think it helps to really like people as, as a general group, you know, like you're trying to entertain people, you're trying to be entertained by your own entertainment. Like, do you think you need to like humans?

2 (2h 2m 3s):
That's an interesting question. I thought I could answer that quicker. And I started to think about it because I started to think about the fact that like so many comedians I know, like so many go like, God I hate people so much. You know,

0 (2h 2m 16s):
I mean to put, I'll frame it a little differently than my theory as to one of the, one of the main reasons why Rogan is the top podcast in the world. There are several reasons I believe his work ethic, et cetera. But is because he has lots of different kinds of friends and he can sit down with intellectuals, he can sit down with comics, he can sit down with

2 (2h 2m 39s):
Criminals. Yeah.

0 (2h 2m 40s):
He likes the understanding and communication with different kinds of people. And when you know a little bit about him, like his, his life is filled with these people outside of the studio. Sure. So he's very comfortable in the presence of like anyone, you put anyone in front of him. Yeah. And he, he can be genuinely interested in learning from them. Right. And sharing with them in dialogue. He's

2 (2h 2m 59s):
Genuinely a curious guy too. Yeah. You

0 (2h 3m 1s):
Can't, you can't fabricate that. You can't manufacture that. I agree. I agree. Whereas some podcasters, they're not that interested in what other people have to say. So they, they're not the best interviewers unless it's someone like directly within their genre of interest. This

2 (2h 3m 12s):
That's a good observation. Yeah.

0 (2h 3m 13s):
So as a comic, I guess it depends on the range of topics that you explore in your comedy, perhaps. Yeah. I

2 (2h 3m 19s):
I I don't think you can hate humanity and be a good comedian. Right. I think what like, for sure you have to genuinely love making people laugh. If you're gonna be like successful at it. You have to have an, an obsession with doing that. Like a literal obsession. Because you go through these periods on your journey of standup, of being like, Hey, I, I don't have rent money. I can't, you know, I can't pay for anything. And you have the option, you wanna go get a job and you're like, no, I'm gonna keep doing Like, you're obsessed, you're obsessed with it so much that you're giving up things that people would otherwise in your position be doing in life because you just are so in love with writing and performing Jokes.

2 (2h 4m 1s):
Like, you know, you have an obsession. I do think you have to, on some level though, like, I'm thinking about it, love people. 'cause you're you, if you love making people laugh, you enjoy people. You know, you, you could still be, 'cause so many comics are so bothered by so many things that people do. You know, that's like a very normal, like I'm very much like, I fucking can't stand these, you know what I mean? Like always just like, look at this dipshit. He's bringing fucking eggs on the plane. Like, you know, like you're just like

0 (2h 4m 29s):
Tuna.

2 (2h 4m 29s):
Yeah. You just like, you asshole. You like Tupperware on the plane, eat that shit at the gate. So like, you know, we're always like noted. You know what I mean? You're always just like complaining. Complaining is part of being a standup. You're funny. If you, if you never complain about anything, you're probably not funny. You know what I mean? It's, you're

0 (2h 4m 46s):
Like humanity too much.

2 (2h 4m 47s):
Yeah. I feel like if, here's the thing, if you go I'm good with whatever, you're not a funny person. You can, you're funny if you have a, you either love or hate something that can be funny. You can love this. And it could be funny. You could hate it. And that'd be funny if you're like, I mean, I'm fine. That's not

0 (2h 5m 6s):
Funny. The, the me response doesn't do to

2 (2h 5m 8s):
Me. It doesn't do anything in, in stand up. Yeah. So, but like I think somebody that complains about people can be very funny. You just, you can't be like all people everywhere. I can't stand like that. That would be too extreme.

0 (2h 5m 23s):
There are all sorts of theories about how people's kind of childhood issues or just their fundamental struggle, like feeds their art in incredible ways. I think I saw an interview with Jim Carrey who admittedly, I don't know much about his comedy. I sort, I was so busy in school when he was kind of through his reign of physical comedy movies. Yeah. I've never seen Dumb and Dumber. I've never seen The Matrix. I've never seen Goonies. Sorry. I just haven't, I I love Stand By Me. I love other movies, but I need to see those movies. I just, I just, I just, I'm busy. I'm trying. I got a lot I wanna

2 (2h 5m 55s):
Do. You know, I just, last night at dinner, I, I just admitted that I had never, I've never seen Braveheart and I've never seen Gladiator. Oh, those are amazing. Yeah. And I guess what, I'm not gonna see 'em really. No. Alright. I'm just not not gonna see.

0 (2h 6m 7s):
I'm not. Well clearly just knowing a little bit about your children and the fact that they're related to you, I'm not gonna try and push you to do anything. 'cause clearly you guys are stubborn. Yeah. So the question I have after seeing this Jim Carrey thing, he said, you know, his, the reason he did comedy is he wanted to make people laugh to forget about their, their struggles. He had a a chronically ill mother and he used to like throw himself down the stairs as a kid. Like I believe him. I mean like, so physical comedy became his thing. How much did, do you think that really successful comedians tap into sort of a fundamental quest to resolve something? You know, you're trying to, whatever It is, fill in the blank.

0 (2h 6m 49s):
I don't wanna fill in blanks for you. Yeah,

2 (2h 6m 51s):
Yeah, yeah. No, I think it's, I mean, I could speak for myself. I think in my own, in my own case, I was the new kid a lot. Right. I, I was, I was the, I went to one school for, for grade one for second and third, A different one for fourth. Whoa. A different one for fifth and sixth. A different one for seventh and eighth, A different one for ninth. And I switched again in ninth grade. So I was a new kid all those times. And I felt like whenever I arrived and I, you kind of like over time go like you start to develop this muscle for like, how am I gonna get someone to like me? And it was like, try to make 'em laugh, right? Like that became a thing, was try to make 'em laugh.

2 (2h 7m 31s):
I think for me personally, there was also this just my own Insecurities. I think I felt like if I got enough people to laugh and if I became successful at making people laugh and like people acknowledged it, that I would no longer feel these Insecurities. And it doesn't happen. They stick with you.

0 (2h 7m 54s):
And thank goodness. 'cause it sounds like it's the, it's the fuel for your art.

2 (2h 7m 58s):
I think it probably is. I mean, I just remember thinking like, you know, if I were to be like, had a special and I got paid, well then I wouldn't have any self doubts anymore. Or like, you know what I mean? Like, you think that like then I'll be, I'll feel fulfilled and then you get the thing and you're like, yeah, no, it's, it's the same. It's, it didn't go. I mean you, you start to address it in other ways. 'cause you just realize that the accomplishment or whatever isn't the answer to that thing. But It is a thing that makes you, you think that it will make you feel complete. Right. And it's not the case.

2 (2h 8m 39s):
And I think I do think that like being a new kid a lot is something that I'll, I'll probably never shake that kind of memory of just it's, you know, when you're a kid, your social acceptance is so dominating. It's different As you get older. I think, you know, you're not, you're not like so concerned with like being socially accepted everywhere and you have a family and you're just like, this is my, my group. But as a kid it's like, it's kind of everything, you know? And being new every time, like every new school year is like yeah. It's kind of, it's kind of traumatizing. Yeah.

0 (2h 9m 16s):
So it's the friction that creates the spark.

2 (2h 9m 18s):
I think so.

0 (2h 9m 19s):
And so you don't want to do too much therapy and resolve it.

2 (2h 9m 22s):
I mean I've seriously

0 (2h 9m 23s):
Speaking,

2 (2h 9m 23s):
I mean I've done so much. Yeah.

0 (2h 9m 25s):
Same. It doesn't ever go away. I,

2 (2h 9m 27s):
Yeah, it helps, you know, it helps in that like, you have certain awareness of things now. Certain dots get connected. I love, I think therapy is phenomenal. I would not have traded any of the therapy that I had. I'm a huge advocate for it. I think it's great. Yeah. It doesn't, you don't go like, same thing like now I'm done, everything's fine. Like it doesn't work like that. But I, let's say

0 (2h 9m 49s):
Taking Jordan's competitive nature away, you wouldn't want that. No. That was the, that was the friction that created the Yeah. The, the phenomenon that is

2 (2h 9m 57s):
A lot of comedian, I'm speaking, I spoke of myself, but I think a lot of us fall under the, like the banner of, to put it simply please like me. You know what I mean? Like, you just go, please, please. Like, I want you to like me. 'cause that's what you are when you're a new kid and that's what you are when you walk into a room and you know, you just go like, I just want people to like me. And, and a lot of comics might not admit it like that, but it's definitely the case. You're just, you want to be liked. Sounds pathetic, I think. But it's true.

0 (2h 10m 28s):
No, I don't think it sounds pathetic. It sounds incredibly open and honest. And I think it's gonna be very helpful for people who seek to be comedians and just for people generally trying to think about how their, their challenge that inner friction can Yeah. Can create amazing things. Yeah. And you've managed to do it over and over again. So maybe

2 (2h 10m 48s):
You almost got me to cry. We talked about, you almost got me

0 (2h 10m 50s):
To cry. I can keep

2 (2h 10m 51s):
Going. No, no, no. Keep change the topic.

0 (2h 10m 53s):
What's happening now? What's next?

2 (2h 10m 55s):
Well, it real like, I, I know people use this expression, but it really truly was a dream come true to make the series like a, a for real. You know, I made no secret about it that like, the reason I moved to LA was not to be a standup comedian, it was to like, make movies and stuff. Like that's what I wanted to do. So like, getting the opportunity to make the show, it felt like I got paid to make like 15 mini movies for the series. And I, I mean I, I've never had a more fulfilling kind of creative experience, like from writing to producing it to, you know, being in the edits and, and seeing this thing come together.

2 (2h 11m 41s):
So for me it's like, it's such a thrill to have that experience and to be able to put that out as like, something that, that I made with, with a bunch of great people. The difference standup is like, you're alone and like on a show or a movie, you're with like a hundred other people. And it was, it was an awesome experience and I get to do some more of it. So I, I get to do like a, a movie this summer and another show I got asked to, to develop. So I'm, I mean, I'm like over the moon that I get to do these things. It really, it's like I get to do 'em 20 years after I thought I would do them. But it's, I'm super grateful to have the experience. So yeah, I'm most excited that I get to keep pursuing that because I feel like it's been in my head this whole time and now I actually get to act on it.

0 (2h 12m 29s):
Well, listen, I'm so grateful that you came here to share with us about your process. I mean, we talked about the art and science Yeah. Of comedy and Humor.

2 (2h 12m 35s):
I hope it was good man. I, I,

0 (2h 12m 37s):
I loved it. It was, it was excellent because you share so openly and you, you know, pull, pull back the curtain on your process and, and comedy in general. And I love what a deep thinker you are and at the same time how much you just pour yourself into your craft and enjoy it. Thanks man. And your reflections are really appreciated. And I, I'm a fan. I'm also proud to have you as a, a cousin. I, and look, I, I look to you as somebody who really understands how to also balance work and family and merge the, the insanity of life into a craft. And, and people really, I can just say I, I speak for many, many people very confidently on this.

0 (2h 13m 19s):
People can really feel your benevolence even when you're pointing out the like, like the darkness and the, and the ridiculousness of, of the, the human experience. So you make our lives better. And I so grateful you

2 (2h 13m 32s):
Came out here today. Well that's, that's very kind of you. I'm also like, I should say I'm, you know, I am, I dunno if enough people tell you, but I'm also very honestly proud of you for like what you've done and Thank you. You know, being a a a, a teacher is one thing, but being able to teach so many people and share, like, I always feel like the most generous person is the person who doesn't hoard information. It's a natural human instinct where people have information about something and they just go, I'll keep this to myself. And so the fact that you share, you teach so much, you know, I pick up things for you, from you all the time. And I, and so many people do. And then it's become this thing where, you know, now people are like, what are you fucking listening to? Humor men? You're like, actually yeah, I am. Like my, my wife's like, what did Humor men tell you to fucking take a shit right now?

2 (2h 14m 14s):
I'm like, yes, no, but I mean, it's, It is great that you, you don't, you don't hoard information. You, you, you share it and I think it helps a lot of people and

0 (2h 14m 22s):
Thank you. It's a labor of love. And for people that know me As you do, that's the same on camera and off camera. So you're a great role model to me. I'd love to have you back to continue the conversation.

2 (2h 14m 33s):
I would love to, we'll do a five hour one next time. Yeah.

0 (2h 14m 35s):
Like, and I'm gonna finish the rest of of Bad Thoughts. Please

2 (2h 14m 40s):
Do.

0 (2h 14m 41s):
It's amazing. Yep.

2 (2h 14m 42s):
Thanks so much. Alright,

0 (2h 14m 43s):
Tom, thanks so much. Thank you for joining me for today's discussion with Tom Segura to find links to Tom's work. Please see the show note captions. I should point out that Bad Thoughts is not suitable for children. If you're learning from and or enjoying this podcast, please subscribe to our YouTube channel. That's a terrific zero cost way to support us. In addition, please follow the podcast by clicking the follow button on both Spotify and Apple and on both Spotify and Apple. You can leave us up to a five star review and you can now leave us comments at both Spotify and Apple. Please also check out the Sponsors mentioned at the beginning and throughout today's episode. That's the best way to support this podcast. If you have questions for me or comments about the podcast or guests or topics that you'd like me to consider for the Huberman Lab podcast, please put those in the comment section on YouTube.

0 (2h 15m 29s):
I do read all the comments for those of you that haven't heard, I have a new book coming out. It's my very first book. It's entitled Protocols and Operating Manual for the Human Body. This is a book that I've been working on for more than five years, and that's based on more than 30 years of research and experience. And that covers protocols for everything from sleep to exercise to stress control protocols related to focus and motivation. And of course, I provide the scientific substantiation for the protocols that are included. The book is now available by presale at Protocols Book dot com. There you can find links to various vendors. You can pick the one that you like best. Again, the book is called Protocols, an Operating Manual for the Human Body.

0 (2h 16m 10s):
And if you're not already following me on Social Media, I am Huberman Lab on all Social Media platforms. So that's Instagram X Threads, Facebook and LinkedIn. And on all those platforms, I discuss science and science related tools, some of which overlaps with the content of the Huberman Lab podcast, but much of which is distinct from the information on the Huberman Lab podcast. Again, it's Huberman Lab on all Social Media platforms. And if you haven't already subscribed to our Neural Network Newsletter, the Neural Network Newsletter is a zero cost monthly Newsletter. That includes podcast summaries as well as what we call protocols in the form of one to three page PDFs that cover everything from how to optimize your sleep, how to optimize dopamine, deliberate cold exposure. We have a foundational fitness protocol that covers cardiovascular training and resistance training.

0 (2h 16m 54s):
All of that is available completely zero cost. You simply go to Huberman Lab dot com, go to the menu tab in the top right corner, scroll down to Newsletter and enter your email. And I should emphasize that we do not share your email with anybody. Thank you once again for joining me for today's discussion with Tom Segura. And last but certainly not least, thank you for your interest in science.