0 (0s):
Welcome to the Huberman Lab podcast, where we discuss science and science based tools for everyday life. I'm Andrew Huberman, and I'm a professor of neurobiology and ophthalmology at Stanford School of Medicine. My guest today is Dr. Sergio Paska. Dr. Sergio Paska is a professor of Psychiatry and behavioral sciences and the director of the Stanford Brain Organogenesis Program. During today's episode, we discuss autism, Schizophrenia, and human brain development generally both brain development during pregnancy, as well as during childhood and leading all the way up to our third decade of life. During today's discussion, you will get the most UpToDate information about autism and its treatments.

0 (42s):
You'll learn why the prevalence of autism is rising, the role that Genes play in autism, and the novel treatments that Dr. Paska is developing to treat what is called profound autism, which are the most severe cases of autism. Dr. Paska is one of a small handful of researchers that pioneered the discovery and development of what are called Organoids and ems, which are essentially human brain circuits derived from Stem Cells that form in a dish so that one can study them directly. And while that might sound artificial today, he explains why those Organoids and EMS are immensely powerful for understanding exactly what is wrong in psychiatric illnesses like profound autism, Schizophrenia, and other psychiatric challenges, and for developing cures.

0 (1m 22s):
So today you're going to learn a lot about human brain development and about Stem Cells, which is going to be important for anyone interested in how the brain wires up, how to treat various diseases of the brain, but also for anyone who is considering stem cell therapies. As you'll soon learn, s is an extraordinary scientist, but also an extraordinary teacher. By the end of today's episode, you'll have the latest information on Stem Cells, Organoids, autism, and what is being done to cure autism and other psychiatric conditions. Before we begin, I'd like to emphasize that this podcast is separate from my teaching and research roles at Stanford. It is, however, part of my desire and effort to bring zero cost to consumer information about science and science related tools to the general public in keeping with that theme.

0 (2m 3s):
Today's episode does include Sponsors. And now for my discussion with Dr. Sergio Paska, doctor Sergio Paska. Welcome. Thank you. It's great to be here. We're old friends. Shared a laboratory space years ago. We'll get back to that a little later. In the meantime, these days there's a ton of interest and I think misunderstanding about autism, as soon as the topic of autism comes up immediately, some people will say, why are we trying to cure this thing? I know autistic children and adults that are delightful. People that lead functional lives, they might be a little bit different or a lot different than other people, but why are we trying to quote unquote cure autism? And then other people will say, well, there are people with autism who need constant care, who will never live independently.

0 (2m 51s):
Tell us about autism, what this spectrum really is. And then we'll talk about what your laboratory is doing to try and literally find cures for the most debilitating forms of autism.

2 (3m 4s):
Well, autism is a complex condition. It's a spectrum, as you said, in a way you could say autism and neurodevelopmental disorders. It's behaviorally defined. There's no biomarker. So in a way, it's a condition that is defined exclusively by observing behavior, which is actually the case for most psychiatric disorders. But it's essentially diagnosed by the presence and absence of certain behaviors in a certain period of time or up to a certain age. And of course, what triggered, I think a lot of discussions in recent years is because the number or the prevalence of autism has increased, right?

2 (3m 46s):
So now it's close to almost 3% of the general population, which of course it's a big number. 3%, almost 3%, yes. Wow. So that has increased even since I was in Medical School. When I was in Medical School, actually, it was considered a rare disease. The reason why I actually studied autism, because it was a very rare disease and we had very few resources. So we thought studying a rare disease would be easier, but now we also know so much more about this condition. So we do know, for instance, that there is a strong genetic component to it, which for a while, obviously we, we, we didn't, In fact, in early days, the psychoanalytic perspective dominated, especially in the fifties and sixties.

2 (4m 31s):
So it was thought that it was resulting from having very cold parents, in particular, a cold mother, emotionally

0 (4m 38s):
Cold.

2 (4m 39s):
Yeah, emotionally cold. It was the so-called refrigerated refrigerator mother hypothesis of autism. And then in the seventies, some of the first biological studies were done primarily in twins, that show something quite remarkable that if you have twins that are identical, genetically identical and one has autism, then the probability that the other one has autism is very, very high, even

0 (5m 6s):
With different mothers.

2 (5m 7s):
Sure, yes. But generally, we think that there is a strong heritable component to autism. So that was like in the late seventies, and really just in the last 10, 15 years, we've learned actually that there are Genes associated with autism and with certainly with very specific forms of autism. And so that's what we would call generally profound autism. Today, the conditions that are severe that are causing an impairment, they're very often associated with other conditions such as intellectual disability. So low IQ Epilepsy. So because it is a spectrum, of course, it creates a lot of confusion.

2 (5m 47s):
And certainly there's no doubt that there are individuals that have autistic traits that are fully functional in the general population. But the reality is also that there are kids that have autism who are very impaired and will require actually lifelong care of sorts. You know, another way of like thinking is about autism is that autism is not one disease. And I think, you know, no psychiatrist or even biologist who studying autism will ever consider that this is one single disease. The way I look at it sometimes is like, think about the Fever of the 19th century in medicine, right? So you see this very often in movies, right?

2 (6m 27s):
They'll say, oh, he has a Fever, high Fever, it's gonna die from high Fever. Well, that Fever could have been a viral infection, a bacterial infection could have been cancer, metastatic cancer, right? Could have been an autoimmune disease. The treatments are very different. But in that time, that's all we knew it was. We were observing that behavior, in which case, raising of the temperature, but we didn't know the biology. Today, we will use very different treatments for those conditions, and some of them for of course, we don't even treat, right? We just observe. So I think in autism research, as it is the case for many psychiatric conditions, there are defined behaviorally, but there's a disconnect with the bi.

2 (7m 8s):
Very often, we don't have good biological mar, we don't have biological markers by definition. And so that disconnect, I think, creates a lot of confusion.

0 (7m 17s):
I have a couple of questions. First of all, is the prevalence of autism higher in males? I've been told yes, if it's 3% overall, is it what? What's the distribution for male services?

2 (7m 32s):
Females? The ratio varies also based on severity, but generally it's been one to four. So more more males than females.

0 (7m 41s):
And we just recently had our colleague Nira Shaw on the podcast who basically said the difference between a biological male and female comes down to this SRY gene, not even necessarily on the Y chromosome. If if a baby has the SRY gene, you're gonna get a fully functional male. Yeah. If not, you're, you're essentially dealing with a female. So presumably something about the SRY gene is conferring vulnerability to autism. I think it's fascinating.

2 (8m 10s):
Well, there are a lot of discussions, of course, like what causes this difference? And you know, some discussions are just in terms of diagnosis that perhaps some of the girls are not getting diagnosed properly, that they're, we, we do know that some of them are very good at sort of what we call like masking the symptoms. So sort of like, you know, learning the skills, social skills, and so like covering for that diagnosis. But what we do know for sure is that there are differences in how the male and the female brain, especially around birth, can actually take up injury. So think for instance about premature birth. You know, one of the best predictors for a premature baby in terms of outcomes, it's actually to be a female.

2 (8m 51s):
Just in general. Females preemies will do much better for whatever reasons, you know, you know, the way the nervous system is built, the resilience, we know that the maturation stage is also different, right? For the male and the female. You know, think about like acquisition of certain milestones that happen much faster. In girls, they generally tend to speak a few months earlier to walk a few months earlier. So just the nervous system is maturing at different, at a different pace and can take injury differently. So it could be that, that, that is certainly the cause. But at the same time, and as we were talking, since autism is not one single disease, it is very hard to point out to one specific factor that is behind it.

David Protein (9m 36s):
I'd like to take a quick break and acknowledge one of our Sponsors, David. David makes a protein bar, unlike any other. It has 28 grams of protein, only 150 calories, and zero grams of sugar. That's right, 28 grams of protein and 75% of its calories come from protein. This is 50% higher than the next closest protein bar. David. Protein bars also taste amazing. Even the texture is amazing. My favorite bar is the chocolate chip cookie dough. But then again, I also like the new chocolate peanut butter flavor and the chocolate brownie flavored. Basically, I like all the flavors a lot. They're all incredibly delicious. In fact, the toughest challenge is knowing which ones to eat on which days and how many times per day. I limit myself to two per day, but I absolutely love them. With David, I'm able to get 28 grams of protein in the calories of a snack, which makes it easy to hit my protein goals of one gram of protein per pound of body weight per day. And it allows me to do so without ingesting too many calories. I'll eat a David Protein bar most afternoons as a snack, and I always keep one with me when I'm out of the house or traveling. They're incredibly delicious and given that they have 28 grams of protein, they're really satisfying for having just 150 calories. If you'd like to try David, you can go to david protein.com/huberman. Again, that's david protein.com/huberman.

Helix (10m 50s):
Today's episode is also brought to us by Helix Sleep. Helix Sleep makes mattresses and pillows that are customized to your unique sleep needs. Now, I've spoken many times before on this and other podcasts about the fact that getting a great night's sleep is the foundation of mental health, physical health and performance. Now, the mattress you sleep on makes a huge difference in the quality of sleep that you get each night, how soft it is or how firm it is, all play into your comfort and need to be tailored to your unique sleep needs. If you go to the Helix website, you can take a brief two minute quiz and it'll ask you questions such as, do you sleep on your back, your side, or your stomach? Do you tend to run hot or cold during the night? Things of that sort. Maybe you know the answers to those questions, maybe you don't. Either way, helix will match you to the ideal mattress for you. For me, that turned out to be the Dusk Mattress. I started sleeping on a dusk mattress about three and a half years ago, and it's been far and away the best sleep that I've ever had. If you'd like to try Helix Sleep, you can go to Helix Sleep dot com slash huberman, take that two minute sleep quiz, and Helix will match you to a mattress that's customized to you. Right now, helix is giving up to 27% off all mattress orders. Again, that's Helix Sleep dot com slash huberman to get up to 27% off.

0 (11m 58s):
You mentioned that autism is diagnosed by behavioral measures or the lack of behavioral symptomology, what we call positive and negative symptoms, which can be confusing language because people think positive means good. No positive is the presence, negative is the absence. Yeah. I haven't looked at this literature in a while, but the last time I did, it seemed that babies or young children failing to focus their own gaze on the eyes of other people as one of the major diagnostic criteria. It seems they look at the face, they'll, they'll more holistically, or they'll zoom in just on the nose, but they're not really making as much eye contact. Yeah. Is that still a diagnostic criteria?

2 (12m 36s):
It's not part of the diagnostic criteria. Interesting. It's, but it is one of the features that has been observed. Of course, it also has to do with just in general, like joint attention is one of the earlier. So you know, if you just tell a child like, oh, look here. Right? So if they kinda like have that attention, if they engage in that attention, it's one of the features that is associated with autism is not, certainly diagnostic is not pathognomonic, so to speak. So it's not specific to the disease in any way, but there's certainly many deficits and some of them can actually be compensated later.

0 (13m 15s):
Interesting. There were some other things I've heard over the years, for instance, that when children with autism have a Fever that their symptoms improve. Yeah. Is that still the case?

2 (13m 26s):
Yeah. So those are mostly anecdotal reports of patients who would have a very high Fever and then for instance, they were nonverbal. So many patients with autism or individuals with autism will have, you know, will be nonverbal. They have very few words or if they, you know, they're, they're not able to communicate. And so there are a few reports of parents saying that when they spike a very high Fever, they'll start talking in sentences like very briefly or like engage. And In fact, I mean that is known, you know, kids in general, when they have a high Fever, they tend to be more talkative. It activates somehow the nervous system.

2 (14m 6s):
There've been a lot of hypothesis about this, some of them having to do with how the noradrenergic system is activating during Fever. Others saying that there are some of the cytokines, the immune molecules that are present during Fever that are somehow getting into the brain activating the nervous system, and others as simple as, oh, ion channels, right? Ion channels will open more when the temperature rises. So something about the circuits functioning differently during that, but it's, it's mostly anecdotal at this point. It's, and it's certainly, again, probably not present in all individuals with autism. Also because autism is again, not one single disease.

2 (14m 47s):
So we would not expect it to be present in all.

0 (14m 51s):
A few years ago there was a lot of excitement about the idea that autism might somehow be related, perhaps even caused by deficits in the microbiome. There were some mouse experiments of doing fecal transplants from what we call wild type or healthy mice into mice that were, had some symptoms that resemble autism. And there were improvements observed to the point where I think there were some human clinical trials using fecal transplants. Sure. Whatever became of that,

2 (15m 18s):
You know, I think again, almost everything has been associated or thought to be causal, but generally demonstrating this is very, very difficult. So, you know, we cannot deny that perhaps improving the microbiome will improve the, you know, the quality of life of some of these individuals. But whether it's really causal, there's no clear evidence for it. Think about it. Just to give you another example, think about sleep. Many patients will report, especially the ones that are profoundly impaired, will have severe sleep dis disturbances. I mean, 70, 80% of them, you know, they can have nights where they sleep very little. Right? Then do that for like a week.

2 (15m 59s):
So just imagine even just improving the quality of sleep for those patients can do miracle. I mean all, all of us, right? If we don't sleep for three, four days, our social skills, you know, we become socially impaired. So I think of course, correcting a lot of these issues. So for instance, many patients are picky eaters, you know, they don't like certain textures so we'll, they will never eat, for instance, veggies. Right? So that creates, in the early days, for instance, we thought that, you know, there are dietary disturbances that really at the core, of course it remains to be seen, whether just simply correcting those is gonna be just improving or certainly reversing some, some of these forms. But again, most of the evidence points out towards a very strong genetic component behind it.

2 (16m 44s):
And In fact, we now have hundreds of Genes that we know when, when they are mutated, they are strongly associated with specific forms of autism.

0 (16m 52s):
I'm curious what sorts of proteins those Genes are upstream of. And I ask because David Gente at Harvard into these really beautiful experiments where he induced mutations just in the periphery. So outside the brain Yeah. Of these mouse models for autism and saw a lot of the same symptomology. Yeah. Raising the question of whether or not autism originates in the brain or whether or not the deficits in the brain are the byproduct of changes in the body, yes, microbiome, but perhaps their skin, their hearing, et cetera, are more sensitive. And maybe that's why they, you know, you could imagine if you were ultra sensitive to an environment that your brain would eventually wire differently according to, and kind of overwhelmed by what was happening in the sensory landscape.

2 (17m 39s):
Yeah, absolutely. And those are really elegant experiments that he's done. Many of the Genes, you know, they fit in different categories. Like you would have Genes that would produce proteins that sit at synapses, which was sort of like to be expected. Some of them are, you know, ion channels. They're proteins that would let ions inside or outside of a neuron. There are many of these conditions, so-called channelopathies, and there are the ones that are like synaptic related. So synaps, there are a lot of chromatin Genes, so like proteins that pack the DNA in cells, those are chroma tendinopathies. So they're really, again, many, many categories of Genes. And then what is also interesting is that many of these Genes are also expressed in the periphery.

2 (18m 21s):
So I think the experiments that you were mentioning are really elegant because it show that indeed that can perturb the development of the nervous system, even if they're affecting just the periphery. Of course now in patients there are present also in the central nervous system. So it's always difficult to distinguish, but just missing some of these critical periods or perturbing some of these critical periods of development can have certainly devastating effects later on.

0 (18m 45s):
So if a parent comes into the clinic nowadays with a child that's diagnosed with profound autism, what is the treatment? Let's set aside the, the potential for Epilepsy, which hopefully they would treat as well, or other things that might be secondary. But what is the typical treatment are they doing? And let's assume infinite resources, which of course nobody has, most people don't have, but if one had infinite resources, what would be done? Would it be behavioral training? Would it be something to control the activation state of the brain? I mean, as far as I know, there's no single treatment for autism.

2 (19m 23s):
No, there's no single treatment for autism. Again, in the context of this not being one single disease, what we can say today is that if, you know family walks into the clinic with the diagnosis of autism, or perhaps like they receive it into the clinic, there's still like a 20% probability that they'll leave the clinic with a genetic diagnosis. Meaning that it will be pointed out to them that this gene is mutated in your child. And it may be sometimes a mutation that was present in one of the parents and got transmitted, or maybe it was present in both. And somehow, you know, the child got two copies that were modified now, or many of the Genes are actually mutated de novo, meaning that the mutation was not present in either parents, but something went wrong during development, perhaps early in the sperm cell in the xl or perhaps in early stages of development and the new mutation was acquired.

2 (20m 17s):
But that is also the, we, we acquire a lot of mutations. All of us, they, we have a lot of new mutations, right about like 80 new mutations, 30 of them are protein truncating. So certainly the challenge very often is to, even when you see a, a gene that is mutated to know whether that gene is truly causing the disease. So very often the way we know is that we find many patients that have a similar presentation clinically, let's say maybe they'll have syn actally. So they're webbing of the finger and they have autism and let's say Epilepsy. And they all have a mutation in one single channel, let's say in a calcium channel. So that would be Timothy Syndrome, a genetic form of autism where the mutation is very clear.

2 (21m 0s):
Actually, there's one single letter in the genome that is changed and causes a relatively similar presentation in all of this patients. So about 20% of the patients will get a genetic diagnosis. Now, sadly, that doesn't do that much today because we don't really have specific therapies for those forms. I think the hope is that perhaps we will have individual treatments, whether they're gonna be genetic or otherwise. So being part of that community is generally useful. And then the rest of the patients will essentially fit into this larger category of idiopathic, meaning that we don't really know the precise cause.

0 (21m 38s):
I wanna talk about Timothy Syndrome, and I also want to talk about genetic approaches for fixing Genes. Yeah. So called Gene Therapy. Before we do that, would you be willing to just speculate on why you think there's this fairly dramatic increase in the Incidence of, of autism? People will always say, well, maybe it's better detection, better diagnosis. So I'd like your thoughts on that, and if there are increases that can't be explained with that. I, I'm, I just would like your thoughts, I realize. Sure. We're not talking formal biostatistics here. No, I just, in your experience, you're an MD, you think about autism a lot, you're working on potential cures for autism and other neurologic conditions.

0 (22m 21s):
How do you think about this increased prevalence issue? Yeah,

2 (22m 24s):
Well the, certainly the increase is still puzzling, right? So I think on one hand, there's no doubt that the changes in diagnostic criteria, which has happened over time, I mean, we had to just refine what autism really is. That changed, you know, to some extent the prevalence. We've also seen, you know, a diagnostic migration, so to speak. So some children, for instance, you know, 30 years ago would've been diagnosed with intellectual disability. And today they fit the criteria for autism. You know, about a third of individuals with autism also have intellectual disability. So there is also a great overlap between the conditions. So there's been a move sometimes between the diagnosis over time.

2 (23m 6s):
Of course, there are all kind of discussions about, you know, availability of services and to what extent that is also contributing. Right? But, you know, we don't really un, you know, we don't truly understand all the reasons behind, like this, this increase. There's, there's no doubt we can't explain, we know that it's highly heritable based on genetic studies. So we know the heritability is very high, one of the highest for psychiatric disorders that we know of. But of course we can, we don't have the Genes for every single form. So it is likely that some of them are very rare, right? So essentially just think of it as like, you know, they're individually rare form, but collectively common.

2 (23m 47s):
So we'll take a while until we sort of like map all of them. And then of course, there are environmental factors that we do know historically can contribute to this. So there are various exposures to environmental factors like in early days, thalidomide for instance, was one of them that we know increases the risk for autism. So of course those are contributing, but

0 (24m 9s):
Yeah. But thalidomide was a drug given to pregnant mothers to try and prevent miscarriage. Right? Exactly. It's no longer prescribed.

2 (24m 16s):
It's no longer

0 (24m 16s):
Prescribed, it's caused major birth defects.

2 (24m 18s):
Defects. Exactly. Yeah. So there, there's certainly, you know, it's quite complex because first of all, the definition of the condition is, is quite difficult, right? And I think that is in general like the challenge with psychiatric disorders, right? And, and perhaps one of the reasons we've made such slow progress in understanding these conditions, because of course the power of modern medicine is in molecular biology, you know, we kind of deploy this remarkable force of an understanding. And in order to do that, you need two things. You need, first of all to have a very clear definition of what that disease is generally biologically, right? Think about like myocardial infarction, you know, very clearly defined in terms of like what it actually means.

2 (25m 2s):
You immediately have biomarkers, right? The patient walks in, you take blood, you can immediately tell, yes, in 20 minutes, you can tell that they have a myocardial infarction based on a biomarker. And then the other one, which is certainly very important, which, and to a large extent is sort of like, you know, is the source of all the work that we've done, is the unbearable inaccessibility of the human brain, so to speak. And to a large extent, the human brain is inaccessible for most of its development. And so if you look actually across branches of medicine, you can see that there is a very strong Correlation between how accessible an organ is and how many cures or therapies we actually have. Think even just in cancer, right?

2 (25m 42s):
Think about in cancers, you know, which used to be of course an incurable disease, right? A century ago. Think about like leukemias in children, there are like 90% lethal in the fifties and the sixties today there are maybe 10% lethal. And that is because a lot from these patients, right? It's very easy to collect. We've been bringing it to the lab, studying it, what, what goes wrong? And then deploying molecular biology to develop therapeutics with the brain. Sadly, you know, there's no way of doing it. And so largely to, you know, what we've been trying to do is to like find a way of shortcutting that process.

2 (26m 25s):
But I do believe that the major challenges that we're facing in understanding brain disorders, whether they're neurological or psychiatric, are on one hand, you know, the, in inaccessibility of the organ of interest, the brain. And on the other hand, our challenges are very often defining some of these conditions with biological markers because they're much more complex.

0 (26m 46s):
The degree to which Correlation has been leveraged to try and understand neurologic disease is kind of staggering. I'll just share a couple, and I would love your reflections. I remember when I was an undergraduate and in graduate school, there was this prominent theory that a mother who contracted influenza, the flu toward the end of her second trimester Yeah. And a much higher probability of having a schizophrenic child. And there was so much said of that, and then now we barely hear anything about it at all. Although I think Schizophrenia is more prominent at the, toward the polls where you have harsher winters as opposed to around the equator. But someone needs to check me those on that, because those statistics might have melted away with more careful analysis. Yeah. I don't know.

0 (27m 26s):
The other thing is that you'll nowadays hear a growing interest in populations for which a given disease is very rare. So one of the things that's circulating out there now that's related to the vaccine debate, and by the way, I'm just going to, i'll, I'll myself go on record. I don't think there's any solid evidence that vaccines cause autism.

2 (27m 46s):
And, and there's not epidemiologically, there's no

0 (27m 47s):
Evidence there, there's not, I mean, there's this open question as to whether or not vaccines of all kinds can increase inflammation, and there might be things downstream of inflammation. But for the record there, right now, there are no published papers that have not been retracted that, that support the vaccine autism link. I think those papers are being reinvestigated under the new administration. But let's leave that aside for now. People will say, well, you have groups like Amish populations where the incidents of autism is significantly lower. Turns out it does exist. I looked at these data, but it's significantly lower. And then people will say, well, it's the absence of food dies. It's the absence of, of vaccines, perhaps, et cetera.

0 (28m 28s):
But then as a genetic disease, we could say, well, there's also, there's a tendency for people in the Amish community to reproduce with other people in the Amish community. Sure. So it's a more restricted genetic pool. Yeah. And so that could explain it as well. And I, I raised this not to create any additional arguments that are enough out there Yeah. Between people, but just because I think the correlative nature of all this is what kind of raises the opportunity for anything that's observed like a Fever, they get better. Sure. But as you said, healthy kids without profound autism also talk more when they have a Fever. Sure. And so there's, there's been so much made of autism in the various conditions that could create it. Yeah. And I think it's been very confusing for the general public, even as a, as a, you know, trained scientist.

0 (29m 12s):
It's been very confusing for me. I feel like every six months or so, every year we have a new pet hypothesis. Yeah. And, but nothing's really, except for these genetic data, nothing really is rock solid. Right.

2 (29m 25s):
And then of course, it's the, the other issue is also that this conditions are disorders of the human brain. Right. So if you think about it, right, even talking about Schizophrenia, right. Hallucinations, right. Or, or phenomenon that are very difficult to study. And of course we don't know this. We know that Schizophrenia is present in almost every population that we know of, even isolated population at 1%. Right. And again, it's a little bit easier because it's done in adults, right? I think in children it's much more difficult. And In fact, many of the Genes that were early on identified for autism were identified in this populations, in the Amish populations, for instance, there is a very classic example of a gene that is associated with severe Epilepsy and autism that was identified there for the first time.

2 (30m 7s):
It's present in other places as well. So, yeah, I, I think of course the, the, the complexity of the problem is that you also wanna make sure that you don't just associate something, you also wanna reverse it in a way. Right? So you would wanna do the other experiment where you change it and then it goes away. But you can never do that in the human brain. We can just turn things on and off to see whether they're truly causal. And then of course, human brain developments also takes an incredibly long period of time. Right. If anything, it seems that the human nervous system has done everything possible to slow down that process. Right? I mean, we myelinate all the way to the third decade, right? Like neurons are born and migrating through the nervous system into early postnatal years.

0 (30m 50s):
Wait, you're telling me that our, our neurons continue to get myelinated, which of course for those that don't know, is the building of the ment that allows electrical signals to be passed down neurons more, more efficiently in until we're 30 years old.

2 (31m 5s):
Yeah. Yes. There's evidence that myelination, especially in the frontal areas of the brain are con are continuing up to the third decade. Our,

0 (31m 11s):
Unfortunately now deceased former colleague, Ben Barris, he used to shout at people in lab, lab meetings Yeah. When they'd say something he didn't like, he'd say, what do you know? You're not even myelinated yet. Exactly. So he was right. He was Absolutely right. Okay. So if you're in a disagreement with somebody younger than 30, and you happen to be older than 30, you can leverage the argument. What do you know? You're not even myelinated yet. Right? Completely myelinated. Yet, all kidding aside, before we get into the incredible experiments that you're doing and the direction that you're taking to tackle these really hard diseases, I have to ask two questions. First, is the Incidence of autism also increasing outside of the United States? Or is this something unique to the United States and Northern Europe?

0 (31m 53s):
I dunno why we always pair those two, or yes, I should just be fair to the United States and Australia or whatever. Or is there something going on in the United States in particular that autism is increasing faster here? No, this,

2 (32m 5s):
Yeah, no, this, you know, the, so like, the prevalence for autism, you know, has been actually reported to be higher in other countries even before this. So some of the early reports many years ago showed that in Korea, for instance, you know, the ins the, the prevalence was very high. Now that the studies are done also, like in Scandinavian countries, it shows that it's probably around the same, you know, kinda like rate one in 30 to one in 40. So somewhere between,

0 (32m 31s):
Okay. So it can't be whatever is attached to whatever United States specific conditions. It, I mean, yeah. Very likely. Well, because you hear these arguments. Oh, of course. Oh, you know, it's the glyphosates in the, in the, yeah. The crops in the United States. And while I don't favor that argument, I, I do think we need to be cautious about what's in the food supply. But absolutely those same people often will leverage the argument that, well, in Europe they're not using these things. Well, if the Incidence of autism is the same and rising that, that, that sort of does away with that. Right. At least the clean logic of that. And

2 (33m 3s):
Perhaps another argument, which is very important to, you know, bring, is that we find the same mutations, right? I mean the same mutations, if we're talking, let's say a mutation, a specific calcium channel, you know, you'll find it in a patient in Denmark, right. As well as like one in Africa or in, let's say Australia. So I think some of these genetic mutations are sort of like the same. Yeah.

0 (33m 26s):
Could we briefly talk about Gene Therapy and CRISPR just briefly, because I think in the context of a discussion about these neurologic diseases for which currently there aren't perfect cures or even cures, in many cases, Gene Therapy does hold some promise. Yeah, absolutely. In simple terms that I and everyone else can understand. Could you just explain what CRISPR allows physicians potentially to do? In other words, can Genes be fixed in adulthood? Do they have to be fixed in the embryo? And just give your thoughts generally about, about CRISPR and Gene Therapy, because I think most people have heard of it. Yeah. But I think most people don't have an intuitive sense for, for how it, how it works.

2 (34m 9s):
So Gene Therapy is a rather actually broad term and it covers many ways in which you can correct generally a gene or a genetic defect that we think it's causal. So on one extreme, for instance, you can envision a gene is broken, has a mutation. So what you want to do is you want to put it back. So those were some of the early efforts where you would put it in a virus and deliver it to the patient. An

0 (34m 37s):
Adult

2 (34m 37s):
In an adult or an child, depending on like the condition with the idea is that the gene is not there. Or like, there's not enough of it, so I'm just gonna deliver more. That's one extreme.

0 (34m 48s):
Is it inject into the blood or do you have to go into the specific cell type that's lacking the gene?

2 (34m 52s):
Many of the studies were done for blood disorders, of course, because it was easier. So you would inject them. Of course, the other possibility, sometimes you don't wanna put the gene, you wanna put the protein already made. And that is the case for many conditions. Were an enzyme. So protein that, you know, does some interesting chemical reactions that are essential to a cell is missing. So sometimes you just make that enzyme and then you deliver that. It's not always working, but in some cases actually works really well. Now the other thing that you can do is you can try to correct that defect directly. That means you need to operate at the DNA level. So somehow you need to get into every single cell that is affected and correct that.

2 (35m 36s):
And that's where CRISPR comes into play. Where presumably you could at one point deliver, you know, the guides. So the tiny pieces of nucleic acid that tell you where to go on the DNA and then an enzyme. They will do the cutting and then the putting back or various other versions of this that you would Correct. Of course there are challenges with that. Yeah.

0 (35m 59s):
Where do you put it? I mean, so like for sickle cell anemia, I know they've essentially reversed sickle cell anemia. Yeah. Using CRISPR technology, right? That's in the blood, right?

2 (36m 7s):
It's in the blood. So

0 (36m 8s):
It's of the blood. Right. But if, for instance, we know about a, a genetic defect of, let's say a mu, we'll talk more about this soon, but a mutate calcium channel that disrupts heart function and brain function. And you come in with CRISPR, you know what the, what gene is mutated. You have the healthy gene that potentially you can put back. Where do you put it? Right? Do you inject it? I mean, injecting into the heart is possible. Yeah. That's into the blood supply, obviously easier. Yeah. Getting it directed to the bone marrow but to the brain is hard.

2 (36m 37s):
Yeah. Well presumably you could inject into the brain as well. Right? There are ways in which you can inject through either surgery or through an injection in the spinal canal like intrathecally. So that's certainly one way in which you can do it. It is very challenging though, because of course the brain has a lot of cell types and you know, you very often the way you deliver this, like through a virus or through other modalities, you know, there's only so much of that virus that you can actually put inside the nervous system. And the efficiency is not yet like very high. So another way is to go like one level down so that gene will produce an RNA that will produce a protein. So perhaps we don't have to correct the DNA everywhere, but perhaps we can correct something that happens downstream.

2 (37m 20s):
And that's so like being the strategy that we've been using primarily, just mostly because at this point, and probably in the future it will be possible, who knows, like in 10 years or maybe even earlier, we'll be able to deliver very effectively some of the genetic, the therapies using CRISPR.

0 (37m 36s):
Because certainly in non-human primate models, things like colorblindness Yeah. Have been rescued by introducing a gene through a, when we talk about viruses, people often will think, oh goodness, why would I want to get injected with a virus? But we should just mention there are things like adenoviruses, which cold viruses or adenoviruses that can be engineered so that they don't make you sick, but they can carry a cargo like a gene you want to put into a nervous system or, or body that lacks that gene. So when we say using viruses to deliver Genes, it's, it's of the benevolent type, right? Or at least benevolent motivation. What we think that, that those adenoviruses can live in our body for a long time, right. Without causing additional trouble.

2 (38m 17s):
And, and they're very often modified to make sure that they don't cause disease. Of course, another limitation of that is that if the gene is really large, it simply won't fit in a virus. So for instance, that would be the case. If you think about a calcium channel. Calcium channel is a gigantic gene, it would be very difficult to fit inside a virus. And then of course the other thing is like with this viruses very often, especially with the adenoviruses or AAVs, is that you have one shot, meaning that you have to inject once and hopefully would work because next time, you know, you may have an immune reaction, right? You'll have, you'll produce antibodies and so you won't be able to deliver again. So there again, there are all kind of challenges that, you know, people are working really hard to solve.

2 (38m 60s):
And I have no doubt that in the next decade we'll see, you know, therapies or you know, perhaps even cures for some of these conditions. Of course. And I think you were bringing this up, one of the challenges, like when we do this, because especially for disorders of the brain neurodevelopmental disorders, so autism and other neurodevelopmental disorders, the question is always how early it is too late. You know, how much damage has it done? Has it been done? And how much can I actually correct? And that's one of the things that, you know, we're only now starting to really explore as we're thinking about some of the first clinical trials in this space.

0 (39m 36s):
This might shock you a bit, but folks in the quote unquote biohacking community, not me, are getting, I know some that have gotten fo statin Gene Therapy as a body enhancement thing. So leaving the country, 'cause you can't do it in the United States and literally getting an injection of a, of a fo statin gene therapy to I guess to have more muscle to, you know, improve that. I wouldn't do it personally. I also, I like working out, so I, I don't need a f statin Gene Therapy, but it's interesting to note that people are doing this, and I'm raising this as a segue into a discussion about Stem Cells.

0 (40m 16s):
Because people around the world are getting injected with Stem Cells in the United States. It's, it's still not allowed by FDA for most things. But I think Gene Therapy has started it. It's certainly begun. It's, but it's not the sort of thing that your physician offers up early, right? It's still very experimental for most things.

2 (40m 38s):
And then for gene therapies, again, in the context of what you are mentioning is some of this, again, there are irreversible. So once you put the gene in, you know, and it goes into a cell, let's say through a lentivirus that will integrate, you can't take it out anymore, right? That would be very difficult. It will get inactivated over time. But, so that's why we have to be extra careful with some of these therapies and you know, make sure that we don't do more harm. Right. Which I guess it's always what we try.

0 (41m 3s):
Absolutely.

AG1 (41m 5s):
I'd like to take a quick break and acknowledge our Sponsor AG one. AG one is a vitamin mineral probiotic drink that also includes prebiotics and adaptogens. As many of you know, I've been taking AG one for more than 13 years now. I discovered it way back in 2012, long before I ever had a podcast. And I've been drinking it every day since for the past 13 years. AG one has been the same original flavor. They've updated the formulation, but the flavor has always remained the same. And now for the first time, AG one is available in three new flavors, berry, citrus, and tropical. All the flavors include the highest quality ingredients in exactly the right doses to together provide support for your gut microbiome, support for your immune health and support for better energy and more so now you can find the flavor of AG one that you like the most. While I've always loved the AG one original flavor, especially when I mix it with water and a little bit of lemon or lime juice, that's how I've been doing it for basically 13 years now. I really enjoy the new berry flavor in particular. It tastes great. And I don't have to add any lemon or lime juice, I just mix it up with water. If you'd like to try AG one and these new flavors, you can go to drink AG one.com/huberman to claim a special offer Right now. AG one is giving away an AG one welcome kit that includes five free travel packs and a free bottle of vitamin D three K two. Again, go to drink AG one.com/huberman to claim the special welcome kit of five free travel packs and a free bottle of vitamin D three K two.

BetterHelp (42m 28s):
Today's episode is also brought to us by BetterHelp. BetterHelp offers professional therapy with a licensed therapist carried out entirely online. I personally have been doing therapy for well over 35 years. I find it to be an extremely important component to overall health. In fact, I consider doing regular therapy just as important as getting regular exercise, including cardiovascular exercise and resistance training, which of course I also do every week. There are essentially three things that make up great therapy. First of all, it provides the opportunity to have a really good rapport with somebody that you can really trust and talk to about essentially any issue that you want. Second of all, it can provide support in the form of emotional support or directed guidance, or of course both. And third, expert therapy should provide you useful insights. Insights that can help you improve in your work life, your relationships, and in your relationship with yourself. With BetterHelp, they make it very easy for you to find an expert therapist who you resonate with, and that can provide those three benefits that come from expert therapy. Interestingly, in a recent survey, 72% of BetterHelp members reported a reduction in negative symptoms as a result of their BetterHelp therapy sessions. If you'd like to try BetterHelp, you can go to BetterHelp dot com slash huberman to get 10% off your first month. Again, that's BetterHelp dot com slash huberman.

0 (43m 42s):
Let's talk about Stem Cells, Organoids and Assembloids, and you'll explain what those are. But let's wade into this through the, the way it happened chronologically. Sure. Most people have heard of Stem Cells, cells that could become other things. When I was a postdoc, any laboratory that worked on human Stem Cells worked on human embryonic Stem Cells, literally cells that were collected from aborted fetuses. This was, and given for a medical study, there was an incredible discovery, which you'll tell us about, which basically made that technology obsolete and also allowed scientists to bypass a lot of the ethical considerations, serious ethical considerations.

0 (44m 29s):
Regardless of where you sit on that debate, I mean, you're using the, the, the tissue from a human embryo to, to study things. You could say some people will support that, some people won't. But then a new technology comes along. Yeah. And basically makes that technology obsolete, allowing you and others to do the work on Stem Cells and Assembloids and so forth without having to take cells from human embryos, which is spectacular. So could you please tell us about that discovery of the stem cell technology that really changed the entire game and did away with this ethical, yeah, serious ethical battle, let's call it what it was. Sure.

2 (45m 5s):
Let's start first with Stem Cells and what they are, because I think it's also important to define them. So Stem Cells are cells that have two properties. First of all, they in principle can become other cells and if they are of the most potent type, they'll be totally potent. So they can make everything, if they're pluripotent, they can miss almost everything. And then of course there are, you know, lower levels of potency for the cells. So we all carry Stem Cells in us, right? Not in the brain, or fewer in the brain for sure. But you know, in the liver and in other organs, like in the gut, as we renew the gut, you know, every few weeks, that is done primarily through the Stem Cells.

2 (45m 45s):
But those are restricted. They can make everything, they can make mostly that specialized cell type for which they have been selected, primed. Now the earliest earliest of Stem Cells like those pluripotent, they're very important. Those are present at early stages of development of the embryo. And of course that happens post conception. So the challenge has been that you have to remove them from a fertilized egg. And if conception, if life starts at conception, then of course you are interfering. So I think a lot of the ethical debates have started because of that. But you know, in early days, even if you were to do that, you wouldn't be able to keep those cells. It turns out that the cells are very difficult to maintain.

2 (46m 27s):
And this brings us actually to the second property of the cells, which is that in principle, they can be maintained forever. If you provide the right conditions, they will divide and stay the same forever. Those are the two properties. So, you know, you can keep them forever. You can freeze them down, put them in a, you know, liquid nitrogen, bring them out anytime, and they'll start exactly where they left. And then with the right guidance, they can become other cell types. So only around, you know, 1998, it was that when we could actually maintain some of the cells in a dish. So somebody figured out a soup of chemicals that you can add and this cells will survive.

2 (47m 9s):
Because after that point, it was not possible. So that triggered, of course, the promise of this field that now would be able to take those cells and derive various organs, right? Perhaps transplant them, replace organs. Of course that ended up being much more complicated. And of course there were all these ethical debates related to the source of those cells and what does it actually mean to use this embryonic Stem Cells? And yet we've learned a lot about those cells in early days, what are the properties of those cells? And then almost 20 years ago, Kos, a scientist in Japan at the UCSF, came up with an absolutely brilliant idea. You know, we were always thought that the development, the development of the human or of any, it's, it's a one-way street.

2 (47m 57s):
Once you go down development, you never come back. So once you start making, you know, a stem cell that is more restricted, and then at the end you make, let's say a liver cell, you can never go back and become that pluripotent stem cell again. And that generally is thought to be useful to protect us from like cancer or like any other. So we don't have, you know, parts of our hands like d differentiating into something else. And he thought that maybe you could do that, not in a natural way, in an artificial way. And that, of course would be very useful. So what he did is he went and he looked at the Genes that are expressed in pluripotent Stem Cells at very, very high levels. So very, very high levels.

2 (48m 38s):
And almost as Gene Therapy, because we were talking about Gene Therapy, he took like, kind like the top couple of dozens of these Genes and then started adding them inside skin cells. So he took skin cells initially from mice and then from human, and then started adding them one by one, two by two, three by three, four by four, five by five, six by six to see whether any of those cells, once they have this combination of Genes that are expressed in pluripotent Stem Cells, would somehow get confused and think that they're actually a pluripotent stem cell and then go back in time and actually become a pluripotent Stem Cells. And he's shown indeed that a combination of four is enough. Of course you can have six. And that ended up being what we today called the Yama NACA factor in.

2 (49m 22s):
In a way it was like, it was almost like alchemy, right? Where you sort of like, you know, transform something into something else, right? You make out of this metal, you make gold. It was pretty much like that. It was kinda like the essence of alchemy. And it turns out that that discovery was so profound because suddenly you could take a skin cell from anybody and put those genetic factors in, turn those cells into pluripotent Stem Cells that we later on learn, they're almost identical to those embryonic Stem Cells. And now have those cells from any of us and use them for various purposes, perhaps for let's say, making blood cells in the future or perhaps to, you know, model something outside of the body.

2 (50m 4s):
And I was finishing my clinical training around that time. And I remember even seeing that paper. And of course in my naivete at that time, I thought, wow, this is it. This is gonna be, you know, the entry point for studying human neuroscience. I was doing experiments at that time, studying actually the cortex and recording from animals electrical activity of those neurons. And always like thought it's like I saw this disconnect between what I was seeing in the clinic, which were these patients with severe, profound autism and then recordings from the brain and thinking, we're never gonna be able to do that. How are we gonna understand this complex disorder of the brain if we cannot even listen to the activity of those cells live?

2 (50m 47s):
And then suddenly, like seeing that discovery, you know, again, naive at that time thought, well that could be perhaps the way in which we could make neurons from any patient. And so very soon after I came to Stanford, which I guess where we met with sort of like this idea in mind that we will be able to make neurons from this patient and rebuild maybe some of the cells or some of the circuits of the brain outside of the body without doing any harm. 'cause we're not doing a biopsy of the brain or anything invasive, just essentially creating a replica of some of those cells outside of the body. And then finally study them at will in a dish and do all kind of experiments where you remove things and add things and perhaps a one day even develop therapeutics.

2 (51m 32s):
And here we are, 16 years later since that process really started, took a long time. But now for the first time we've gotten such a good understanding of some of these conditions. And one of them in particular that actually a therapeutic is insight. And we're preparing for the first clinical trial that is really arising exclusively through studies done with this Human Stem Cell Models without actually using any animal models, just essentially creating recreating cells and circuits outside of the brain of those patients.

0 (52m 4s):
It's amazing because it allows you to study human cells, which has Im immense benefit. They're essentially limitless in number. Yes. Because all you need is one fibroblast. Yeah. One, one skin cell or, or some cell that you can provide these Yamanaka Factors to and essentially grow other cells. And we'll talk about what those cells that you create are capable of becoming, not just cells, but circuits. Yes. In a few moments, but I know it's going to be in the back of people's minds and certainly in the back of my mind, this idea that when one has a baby, that you should keep the umbilical cord because the umbilical cord, yeah.

0 (52m 47s):
Contains Stem Cells. Usually I think the umbilical cord is discarded. Maybe some people keep it, I don't know. What is the current thinking on Stem Cells that reside in the umbilical cord? People pay a lot of money to freeze those, and most people don't have a a minus 80 freezer around, so they pay to do that. What, what is the potential for Umbilical Stem Cells in the future? Is it something that parents, I don't wanna say should invest in, but if they have the disposable income, that they would be wise to do that?

2 (53m 19s):
So those cells that are collected from the umbilical cord are Stem Cells, but they're already quite restricted in what they can make. So their applications are also restricted mostly to blood disorders. So I think it's, it's important to keep in mind that they're not sort of like a universal, you know, solution to anything that would ever involve pluripotent Stem Cells in the future or stem cell therapies in the future. So again, I think it's important to know while that while they have certain applications, and there've been quite clear cases where the availability of those cells were useful in a blood disorder, in that child later on. There's certainly not, you know, they have this universal uses as maybe sometimes they're being advertised.

0 (54m 5s):
When we hear about people typically leaving the US to get quote unquote Stem Cell Injections. Yes. Where are those Stem Cells coming from? Are they coming from those patients? And I should mention that there was a clinic down in Florida that was offering Stem Cell Injections into the eye for people with macular degeneration. And that clinic was shut down and all Stem Cell Injections in the United States, to my knowledge, all were shut down because those patients, not only did it fail to rescue their vision, it actually made them go blind very quickly. Right. So the FDA shut down commercial Stem Cell Injections, I think there's still places where they do a kind of workaround.

0 (54m 46s):
Yeah. And it's worth mentioning that PRP, platelet rich plasma is FDA approved. It does not contain many, if any, Stem Cells despite what you might read. But what, what are your thoughts on like when people go down to Columbia, it seems like they go down to Columbia Yeah. Or elsewhere to get, or Mexico to get Stem Cell Injections assuming the conditions are are clean. Yeah. And I, I say that because I know of at least one patient who was paralyzed from an injection of Stem Cells into their spinal disc paralyzed, almost died. Yeah. Fortunately is doing better now. And it was because it went septic the way that got infected.

2 (55m 24s):
Well that's one of the problems. Very often we don't even know what is being injected. I think that is like a very important aspect. We don't know what is sometimes are the cells from the patient that are being collected. Sometimes some of the umbilical cells, sometimes we don't even know what cells are being injected. Like

0 (55m 39s):
It could be cells from somebody else.

2 (55m 41s):
Yeah. They're incredibly risky procedures. Of course. They've never really been observed. There have been very few of any clinical trials trying to really address it in a very systematic way. And very often that's also the case. You know, that's also because they're not really justified. So in the context of autism, this is very often like done, you know, and it's done not just in South America. Sometimes there are places in Europe where you can get an injection of some Stem Cells for autism.

0 (56m 6s):
Wait, parents are taking their kids to these clinics and getting them injected with Stem Cells that come from some other patients.

2 (56m 11s):
Some, some, some cells that are collected data from the patient. You know, it depends a little bit on where it's done and how it's actually done. But again, e even from a biological point of view, you know, what are those Stem Cells presumably doing let's say in autism? You know, we don't think that there is a cell that that is missing in the brain. So it's not like those cells can go. And I think as I was mentioning before, most of the cells already restricted in their potential. They can no longer make any cell types. So you know, the idea that you take this pluripotent Stem Cells and you just inject them, let's say in the knee and it will like miraculously grow, you know, cartilage, it's very often not really the case. 'cause those cells are not even capable of making cartilage.

2 (56m 52s):
So I think there's, you know, very often, you know, a lack of understanding of what these therapies really are. And then of course there is sadly a lack of understanding what of what is actually being injected. So, you know, for autism, this is unfortunately happening much more often that you would think. So I very often get like parents or families that are asking me desperately, you know, with like exhausted old resources. We don't know what else to do. We've tried behavioral therapy, we've tried this therapies, nothing works. And everybody's recommended that we should just go now to South America and do this injection. Should we do it or not? Right. And of course my answer is always like no.

2 (57m 32s):
Because again, there's no reason that that would work. Some parents come back and of course they report an improvement and which is generally temporary to the extent that we know. Of course it's never really been studied in a very systematic way. Partly it's of course there is a very strong placebo effect, which you can, you know, especially in parents like by proxy, when you have a child who's like very sick, those placebo effects are very, very strong. These parents really want those kids to improve. And so they will see things that are improving. Plus those are still developing kids. So week by week they may acquire new milestones.

2 (58m 12s):
And then the other thing, which of course could be part of this is that there is an inflammatory effect very often. And so that's almost like the Fever in a way, right? Like would increase perhaps some of the cytokines will create a Fever perhaps that is associated. We don't really know. But certainly there are Dangers associated with, you know, with like procedures like this that are, you know, lack the rationale first of all. And then of course then they lack any regulatory, you know, framework.

0 (58m 43s):
Yeah. I mean I think the, the concern is very real for Stem Cell Injections into all tissues. But when it comes to eyes or brain, and of course eyes are brain. Yes. That's where I just, you know, take a big deep breath and hold it and like wide eye like oh my goodness, no, because we don't get new neurons. You lose neurons, they're gone. I mean we get a few in the olfactory bulb in the denate gyrus of the hippocampus, a few. But you know, once they're gone, that's it. Right. And injecting something into the brain, the, the probability of tumor growth is, is incredibly high.

2 (59m 17s):
Absolutely. And especially when it is in the brain where there's not enough space. Right? So we know that anything that grows in the cranial cavity will actually push down Right. Vital center. So there are certainly risks associated with that.

0 (59m 31s):
So let's talk about the other approach, which is the one that you are, you've been embarking on. I'll never forget when we were postdocs folks, we were postdocs in the same room. It was D 2 2 2. Yes. We had a lot of pride in that room. We had benches on opposite sides of the room and we sort of took over that room as an empty room. This is, you probably couldn't do this anymore, but it was like there's an empty room. Let's bring some microscopes in there. We just started doing experiments there. And I'll never forget when you started building Organoids, you started building nervous systems in, in a dish and how excited you were. And, and it's been remarkable to see your, your arc to from that.

0 (1h 0m 13s):
And it's not lost on me that you were working extremely hard then and continue to, to become what really one of the luminaries of this field. Tell us what Organoids are, tell us why they're useful and what they're telling us already about how the brain develops and their therapeutic potential. Yeah.

2 (1h 0m 34s):
So let's start from the beginning. So around like, you know, 15, 16 years ago we were able for the first time to get some of the cells that are now known as induced pluripotent Stem Cells. These

0 (1h 0m 46s):
Are the Yamanaka?

2 (1h 0m 47s):
Yes. Or IPS cells, ips so induced because they've been induced to become pluripotent in an artificial way. But again, they stay like that so you can share them with anybody else like afterwards. So we got some of those first cells in those early days. And now the question was how do we make neurons? And what you do is you really kinda like leverage the everything that is known in developmental biology, right? So we already know that there are certain molecules that are very important for making neurons. So all you do is you put those cells in a dish, right? In a plastic dish in a petri dish and then you start, almost like when you cook you start adding various molecules on top and you see what happens. And we knew that it's actually quite easy to make neurons that was already known.

2 (1h 1m 31s):
There's been a lot of experiments done the decade before that showed that even if you just remove some of the factors that maintain those cells pluripotent, those pluripotent Stem Cells will start out to differentiate and they like to become neural cells. Hmm.

0 (1h 1m 45s):
By default.

2 (1h 1m 45s):
Almost by default. So it's actually not that difficult to make neurons. So in those early days, you know, you'll take those cells, play them nicely, those pluripotent Stem Cells in a dish and then remove some of these factors. And then within a few days you'll see that they'll change shape. And within a few weeks some of them will really look like neurons. And when you look at them you can even sort of like look at proteins that only neurons will have. You can actually get an electrode inside a cell and listen to the electrical activity. So it was very exciting as maybe you remember in those days. I mean you know, this bursting curiosity is always sort of like, you know, the a TP of the li the, you know, the life in the lab so to speak.

2 (1h 2m 26s):
It is right. I mean it's just like kinda like wanna wake up right? And want to go see what happened to those cells. And it was clear in those days that you know, we would be able to make those cells but would we actually see any abnormalities in those cells? I think it was like the question, you know, how would you know if you derive cells from a patient with autism, how would you know that you found anything abnormal? And then that was like the question what you know, we didn't even know what would be abnormal in the brain. And so that's when we decided actually to focus on something that would be relatively predictable. And that was this mutation in a calcium channel which was discovered just a few years before in very few patients that had essentially one single letter in their entire genome changed in a gene that makes a protein known as a calcium channel sits in excitable cells meaning cardiac cells and brain cells.

2 (1h 3m 21s):
And every time a cell receives electrical input, this protein opens up and lets calcium go inside the cell. And that's very important because it couples electrical activity of the network with chemical activity inside the cells. And what we knew about that mutation at that point that that's pretty much all we knew in those early days is that it probably allows the channel to stay open slightly longer, just a little bit longer. So more calcium would go inside the cells first. There will be no way to know because you can get a neuron or a cardiac cell from those patients to actually test it. So what we did is essentially we made, we recruited some of these patients, we flew them to Stanford, then we got a tiny skin biopsy made this IPS cells, this takes months, this takes already like four or five months.

2 (1h 4m 10s):
And then we took those cells in a dish, started to deriving neurons and after about 5, 6, 7 weeks, then we put them under a microscope and we started looking at the calcium. You can measure calcium inside cells through a microscope and just literally look at it. And I'll never forget that day, you know, when we did that experiment was looking down the microscope and we essentially stimulated the neurons and you could just see how control cells will go v calcium goes inside the cells and then it goes out. And then in patients that had Timothy Syndrome cell in Timothy Syndrome derived neurons, you could see how the calcium will go V and then it will stay longer. It takes longer to go out. So it was like the first defect that we saw in patient derived neurons that were actually not coming from a biopsy, they were not coming.

2 (1h 4m 57s):
So that was incredibly exciting as you can imagine. But it was still relatively simplistic, just a few neurons at the bottom of a dish. And of course for me what was particularly frustrating was that we couldn't go very far in development. So think about the cerebral cortex, the outer layer of the brain that presumably makes us us human right? It has multiple layers, a large diversity of neurons. You know, it takes 27 weeks to make all those cells in the cortex, 27 weeks to make all those neurons. And we're not even talking about glial cells, the supporting cells that are coming much later for several years afterwards. But just making those cells takes about 27 weeks.

2 (1h 5m 38s):
And it turns out something that we discovered in a three experiments done in a dish is that the timing of the development of those cells, it's actually recapitulated in a dish as well. So if you keep the cells in a dish, they'll actually essentially developed at the same pace. They're not like much faster. And it's very difficult to keep neurons in a dish for 27 weeks to get all the neurons essentially they peel off, you know, every time you start to move them to another plate and at one point they just die. And so then we thought, how about like never letting them to sit down on a surface? How about just essentially aggregating them as balls of cells and then letting those float.

2 (1h 6m 20s):
And in those early days there was this amazing scientist from Japan, Yoki Sai, who started doing really beautiful experiments where he was already moving some of this studies that he was doing of development in 3D culture. So he showed you can make an optic cup a part of the eye. And so it was clear, it was in the air, this revolution of actually moving cells from 2D flat cultures to 3D self-organizing. And that actually unleashed amazing new properties of the cells. So essentially all we did in those days is I ordered from Germany this plates that were counterintuitively coated.

2 (1h 6m 60s):
So the cells never stick, right? I mean every time we keep cells in a dish, you want them to stick, that's the major problem. So they were actually coated so the cells will never stick. And then they were like this bowls of cells, they were floating there and of course I, I remember talking in the lab and everybody was like, oh they're not gonna survive. It's gonna be a couple of weeks and they're gonna, and then a week passed and two week passed and then they kept growing and growing and of course the enthusiasm of every, every day to see are they still alive, right? And then we discovered that we can keep them for months and these three dimensional cultures are now known as Organoids, which is perhaps not the most fortunate name because it suggests that it's organ like. And of course they're not an entire organ so they're not a representation of the entire brain.

2 (1h 7m 44s):
But that's sort of like the term that we refer this days to anything that is so like three dimensional and organizing in some way. And so we started keeping these cultures and then at one point actually we discovered that we can pretty much keep them indefinitely. My lab maintained the longest cultures that have ever been reported, like literally going for years for two, three years in a dish. And at one point in those early days when actually I was running out of funds in the lab and I came one day in lab meeting really you know, determined to, for us to actually like cut costs. And so I've told everybody, go into your incubators 'cause we're spending so much money in feeding the cells and everybody throws out 20% of your cultures.

2 (1h 8m 26s):
And then people started saying, so should I throw the ones that are like 500 days old? And somebody was like, the ones that are 800 days old And I said, what you guys are keeping them for such long? Yeah they're just keep growing there in the incubator. So then we actually did the first study and then we had a series of three studies done over the years of like trying to ask how far do they go in development. So if you have a clump of human neuro neurons that you've made from pluripotent Stem Cells and you keep feeding them in a dish, how far do they go in development? Do they move much faster? Do they move much slower? Are they stuck at one point in development? And it turns out that they actually keep track of development beautifully to such an extent that for instance, we discover when they reach nine months of keeping them in a dish.

2 (1h 9m 8s):
So about the time of birth, they literally switched to a postnatal signature really on their own in a dish. In a dish. So you know, there's this classic example in developmental neurobiology. There is this, there's this protein that usually changes around the time of birth. It's an NNDA receptor. So maybe some people know about NNDA receptors or binding glutamate. They're very important but they change a lot during development. They're made out of different units and the units change. And it was very well known that during early development, so prenatal before birth, you primarily have two B subunits and then after birth they're primarily two A.

2 (1h 9m 49s):
So if you look in brain development, you just see how essentially two B goes up and then it goes down and two A goes up and when you look they meet around birth. So very often people thought that it's birth itself that triggers that switch, that canonical, it's called a canonical switch. 'cause we all thought that it was like so classic. And then you take an organoid that you maintain in the dish for 600 days. And of course we're not inducing birth, we're not changing media, we're not doing anything special and no hormones from the all no hormones changes like you know, we keep exactly the same media, which is certainly a very simplistic, you know, kinda like soup of chemicals but we don't change it. And then you just look at this two subunits and you see how like two B goes down and two A goes up and they pretty much meet that nine months of keeping them in a dish.

2 (1h 10m 37s):
It's amazing. So that tells us that there's some sort of intrinsic clock once you start a development, the cells measure really, really well at the time of development. That does not mean that all aspects of development are gonna now be recapitulating in a dish. But it tells us that there is this incredible ability of cells, especially in the nervous system because of course those cells will keep for the rest of our lives. No we're not never gonna renew neurons, it's gonna be different for liver cells or gut cell. But for neurons probably in particular, they'll need to keep track of time really, really well. So that was like the first discovery that we sort of like made, which is still stunning Today. We still don't know the mechanism. We're still working really hard on figuring out exactly how the cells are keeping track of time because as you can imagine, if we understand what that molecular machinery is, we used to call it a clock, we now call it a timer we think is more of a timer than an actual clock.

2 (1h 11m 30s):
But understanding what the molecular biology of that is will allow us actually to play with that clock, right? So if you wanna make neurons that are, you know, 70 years old neuron from a patient with Parkinson, you know, I don't have to wait 70 years in a dish, could I make it in like a few weeks or perhaps could I take an aging neuron and somehow, you know, rejuvenated by playing with that, with that timer. But just to make it clear, we still don't know that, you know, we have some clues about like what it may be, but I think it's still early days and I think that was like one of the first things that this cultures allowed us to do. Just watch development, human brain development outside of the human body in a dish and actually witness that some fundamental aspects of brain development are actually recapitulated even outside of the uterus and of course of the prey.

2 (1h 12m 22s):
So that that was like the first and then of course I guess I'm a developmental neurobiologist by trading and you know I've done a lot of circuit work in early days. Of course an obsession of mine was that especially for conditions as complex as autism and Schizophrenia, we need to recapitulate some of the circuit properties of the brain, right? So we now know that you know, probably both for Schizophrenia and for autism, it is very unlikely based on the evidence that we have so far that there are cells really missing from the brain. You know, we thought for a while that maybe some cells are missing or maybe other cells are in, you know, in excess. But now the studies that have been done, especially with single cell profiling of brains of patients that have already died showed us that the composition of the brain of the cortex in particular, it's very, very similar.

2 (1h 13m 9s):
So it's unlikely that the cells are missing or like, but likely the way they're connected with each other is that makes a difference. And of course in the beginning we were just making this clump of cells, they're all for the cortex but they're like not connected to anything else. So then came the idea of Assembloids because most of the cells in the brain connect with cells across the nervous system. And In fact, even more interestingly, cells do not reside in the place in which they're born in the nervous system. We have the largest cell diversity of any other organ, almost 2000 cell types by the end of the first trimester there are about 600 cell types in the human brain. You know, think about the liver, right?

2 (1h 13m 50s):
Maybe a couple of dozens the brain has to make you know, hundreds of times more. So how do you do that? The only way is to actually make the cell types in different parts of the brain provide local cues there. And then once the cells have been specified, let them move and find their final position. So the first assembly that we've actually made were of a very stereotypical canonical movement of cells in the nervous system, which has to do again with the cortex. So the cortex, again, the outer layer of the brain has both excitatory and inhibitory neurons. It turns out that most I inhibitory neurons are not born in the cortex but they're born deep in the brain.

2 (1h 14m 30s):
So essentially all we did is we made two brain regions, the ones that has excitatory neurons and the one that has inhibitor neurons. And the plan was to put them together hoping that at one point you know the cells will like sort of like know what to do. And In fact that was like one of the first projects in my lab kind like planning that. And I remember gave to one of the students like this very difficult task of figuring out how we're gonna fuse these two cultures and they're about three millimeters inside so you can see them by eye. And I thought it was gonna be very difficult to put them together. So the student worked for for months trying to figure out like biological glues, you know, kinda like using various electrodes and impaling them and everything else until somebody else came one day and said like it's very simple.

2 (1h 15m 13s):
You just put them at the bottom of a tiny eend orph tube, which is the tiniest like of tubes that you get. You put them there overnight and next day they're completely fused but they're not just fused because now if you look inside within a few days the cells that are supposed to move start to actually point out towards the cortex. They literally smell the chemicals from the cortex and they start to move in this various stereotypical way towards the cortex. And so that was the first, as amyloid made around 2015, and I still remember it was Ben actually Ben was so excited Ben Baris was so excited about like seeing the cells, he wanted to look at these movies every day.

2 (1h 15m 53s):
And then he said, I still have this email from him where he was very preoccupied that he kept saying like, this new preparation is not an organoid, it's not a steroid, it's something else. You have to find another name. He

0 (1h 16m 6s):
Loved naming things.

2 (1h 16m 7s):
He loved naming things. Yeah.

0 (1h 16m 8s):
And he understood the importance of naming things, not just for like career reasons, although he understood a lot about how to build a career. Yeah, perhaps, but because naming like Yamanaka Factors made sense to name it. After Yamanaka he got a Nobel and is immortalized that way like Stem Cells immortalized? Yes. But I think the naming is essential because otherwise things can get lost in in the technical details. Yes. So who came up with the name?

2 (1h 16m 37s):
So, so he kept insisting that I should find the name. So I made this long list. I still have like the in my notebook, like I had a long list of about 20 and I would like keep sending Ben one and you know like Ben was always awake like 24 hours.

0 (1h 16m 50s):
Yeah he didn't sleep much

2 (1h 16m 52s):
And never slept. So I remember one after sending many emails going back and forth and he was just like, no bad name, bad name, I don't like it. And then at one point I thought well oh it because it's like and then assemble because we're Assembloids the circuits. So I thought assemble it and I sent it and says perfect, I love it.

0 (1h 17m 9s):
So you named Assembloids,

2 (1h 17m 10s):
I named Assembloids and Ben sort of like blessed like one night at like 3:00 AM And so that was the first assem and the first Sid was for cells migrating, but then the question was cells have to find each other and form circuits. And so within a couple of years we started making Assembloids that will have exons. So the long projections of neurons finding other partners. And you know how I forgot who said this must have been Rodolfo or you know, who said that the brain is sort of, you know, the next evolutionary step towards movement, you know, so like the nervous system.

2 (1h 17m 51s):
There's been this theories that has evolved as a way of like moving around. Oh that

0 (1h 17m 55s):
Was Sherton. Sherton said, Waston said that the final common path is movement. He was a physiologist, he was kind of vague in a statement, but I think that he was sherton and I don't doubt that Rudolfo said something about it too. I'm not gonna try and take anything away from Rodolfo. Anyone that knows Rodolfo says he's not somebody you want to piss off. Well

2 (1h 18m 11s):
We should check it like who actually said

0 (1h 18m 12s):
It? Yeah, I give him credit, I like Rodolfo. But,

2 (1h 18m 15s):
But for us that became like the next objective. Like can we actually build a circuit that will have a very clear output so we would know that we've actually built that circuit. So what we did is essentially we thought about like the simplest circuit for movement, which is so like the corticospinal tract, right? So that means that a neuron in deep layers of the cortex sends a long axons all the way to the spinal cord, finds a more neuron, makes a connection, then the motor neuron leaves, the spinal cord goes to the muscle. And essentially you only have these two neurons, right, that are connecting with each other with the muscle two connections, one between the two of them and one with the muscle. So the simplest of circuits that you can have No

0 (1h 18m 55s):
That's me move my big toe. Right?

2 (1h 18m 57s):
Exactly. It's pretty,

0 (1h 18m 58s):
Pretty long distance if

2 (1h 18m 59s):
You think about it. It's a very simple and of course like in other species a little bit more complicated. It turns out that in mice there's an additional neuron there. So there are some changes that, you know, happened over evolution. But for us and in primate it's, it's as, as as simple as this. So what we did was we essentially made an organoid that resembles the cortex and has some of those neurons and then we made an organoid that resembles the spinal cord and has some motor neurons in it. And then we made a bowl of human muscle that you can make from a biopsy. You can literally biopsy a muscle, you get the myoblast, you grow them and you get a nice bowl of of muscle. And then of course the, the challenge was that, you know, the reality is that we don't know how those cells find each other.

2 (1h 19m 41s):
Like in development we know some of the molecular cues that they use but it's, we're far from having a comprehensive understanding of how they find each other. And I remember we were sitting down in the lab and kinda like thinking I resisted actually doing this as the first assembly in the lab for a while because the probability was like against us. Like those cells in the cortical are that less than 5%, the modernized are less than 10%. The probability that they find each other perfectly and in enough numbers to trigger muscle contraction was close to zero. And yet you do it, you put the three parts together, you let them assemble and within a few weeks you can actually now stimulate the cortex with whatever you wanna use with an electrode with light.

2 (1h 20m 24s):
And then the muscles starts to contract. And In fact the more you do it, the more reliable the process is. And then of course we went on to like reverse engineering and figure out that indeed the cells have connected in that precise way. So I think what we started actually to realize was that of course a lot of stem cell biology was, you know, and I think a lot of biology was based on chemical and physical factors that we were leveraging. But we've never truly leveraged this kinda like next level of law or power in biology, which is self-organization, the ability of a biological system of build it itself. If you think about it, the human brain builds itself, right?

2 (1h 21m 6s):
There's of course there are instructions but there's no blueprint. There's no plan that the brain constantly looks to make sure that it actually made all the connections properly. Right? Instructions are sort of revealed at every step for kind like the next step and it mostly comes from the cells finding each other. So I think what we also started to learn from this was that all we need to do is make the parts and if we make the parts right, then the parts will come with the instructions and then the circuits will assemble on their own. And so that has been really kind of like the, the beginning of it. And of course it became progressively more difficult to build circuits. And so of course if you put two you may think, oh let's make three and if you make three can you make four?

2 (1h 21m 48s):
So actually we just published a few months ago, the first four part em that actually now re constitutes the pathway that processes sensory information in the nervous system. So you think about the cortex, you know, sends out to control movement and has an output, but it receives information from the outside constantly. And that happens through neurons that sit close to the spinal cord, have projections in the skin where they sense tactile vibrations or pain stimuli send that information to the spinal cord from the spinal cord. They cross, they go up to the thalamus in the middle of the brain and from the thalamus they go to the cortex. So this is a four part pathway.

2 (1h 22m 28s):
So it took us years, first of all to make the parts and then to put them together. And then again, the beautiful thing about it is that while we still don't know all the rules of assembly, you can make this four part, we call it a Sensory Assembloid or a somato Sensory Assembloid. 'cause it turns out that the sensory neurons that we can make are mostly sensory neurons that sense pain stimuli. And so you can actually put the four parts together, so the sensory, the spinal cord, the tus and the cortex, and you have to put them in that order. If you change the order, the cells will not find each other. So you just have to create the minimal conditions for them, making the right cell types, putting them in the right order, and then they'll find each other and within a few weeks.

2 (1h 23m 9s):
So it takes, you know, hundreds of days to build a circuit like this. But the beauty of it is that suddenly you look at it and you just see spontaneous activity that arises in the entire pathway just starts to flicker all in sync.

0 (1h 23m 22s):
Can you use this EMBL to study the effects of different pain medications?

2 (1h 23m 27s):
Yes. So that is certainly one potential. The other thing that you can do, and the first application that we've had was for genetic forms of Pain Conditions. So we very often think that genetic conditions, so where you have a very clear cause, so like entry points, like kinda like Rosetta stones for understanding anything. So there are these interesting mutations in a sodium channel. So another channel, but the sodium channel turns out that if the channel is overactive because of a mutation, you'll have excessive pain. So this patients are highly sensitive, but then if the channel is essentially unable to function, then this pain that these patients have loss of pain and that's equally bad. Many of these patients actually will die because they can't sense pain at all.

0 (1h 24m 8s):
Yeah. I think people don't realize that it in mutations where people can't sense pain, people fail to make the postural adjustments Exactly. That allow you to stay alive and or to because you, they unfortunately they can be resting a little bit too much on their right leg. We, we normally think, okay, no big deal, but you're constantly making these postural adjustments. If you don't do that, you actually can damage right? The legs that you're, you know, you're, you're pushing down too hard on it seems like a trivial amount of weight, right? So your own body weight, right? But we fail to recognize just how often we're redistributing our Yeah. Our position. No, no,

2 (1h 24m 44s):
No. And it's absolutely true. Like feedback in general, it's very important including through like this painful stimuli through all stimuli in general. And it turns out that if you now make essentially a four-part sem that cares the mutation that causes excessive pain. Now the sensor neurons are excessively active so they keep bursting with activity throughout and then we thought we're gonna take it out and of course in these patients they can fire it. Turns out that's not true that they can fire for some reason. There're probably other channels that are helping them compensate, but they fail to engage the rest of the pathway in a synchronized way. So that's why we need the four parts. And I think that's why assemblers generally are gonna be very useful because they're emergent properties that are arising from the interactions of the cells that distance in the brain and likely many disorders.

2 (1h 25m 30s):
And of course they're very far from understanding complex disorders such as autism. But certainly this interactions fault interactions at a distance in the circuits are probably gonna be, you know, key to understanding the biology of conditions and hopefully at one point collect reversing them.

Function Health (1h 25m 46s):
I'd like to take a quick break and acknowledge one of our Sponsors function. Last year I became a function member after searching for the most comprehensive approach to lab testing function. Provides over 100 advanced lab tests that give you a key snapshot of your entire bodily health. This snapshot offers you with insights on your heart health, hormone health, immune functioning, nutrient levels, and much more. They've also recently added tests for toxins such as BPA exposure from harmful plastics and tests for pfas or forever chemicals function. Not only provides testing of over a hundred biomarkers key to your physical and mental health, but it also analyzes these results and provides insights from top doctors who are expert in the relevant areas. For example, in one of my first tests with function, I learned that I had elevated levels of mercury in my blood function. Not only helped me detect that, but offered insights into how best to reduce my mercury levels, which included limiting my tuna consumption. I've been eating a lot of tuna while also making an effort to eat more leafy greens and supplementing with NAC and acetylcysteine, both of which can support glutathione production and detoxification. And I should say by taking a second function test that approach worked. Comprehensive blood testing is vitally important. There's so many things related to your mental and physical health that can only be detected in a blood test. The problem is blood testing has always been very expensive and complicated. In contrast, I've been super impressed by function, simplicity and at the level of cost it is very affordable. As a consequence, I decided to join their scientific advisory board and I'm thrilled that they're sponsoring the podcast. If you'd like to try function, you can go to Function Health dot com slash huberman function currently has a wait list of over 250,000 people, but they're offering early access to huberman podcast listeners. Again, that's Function Health dot com slash huberman to get early access to function.

0 (1h 27m 33s):
So I wanna discuss a, an ethical consideration slash concern. But before we do that, I I want to take a step back and just have you reflect, I mean I I will never forget the first time I learned neural development like sperm meats, egg, and then you get cell duplications and then the embryo figures out what's gonna become muscle, what's going to become nervous system. And it's really a, it's a humbling thing Yeah. To be able to realize that we understand even a small bit of that. Yeah. And very little was known until, you know, the sort of early parts of the last century really is where some of the defining tissues and interactions were first discovered.

0 (1h 28m 15s):
It was a relatively young science. Nowadays I'm even more humbled by it because one only has to see a child that, you know, nine months ago didn't exist. Yeah. And you, and you really start, I mean most people understand how babies are made and yet it just kind of, it's staggering and I think what's so staggering about it, what's so miraculous that it really is, it's a miracle is the self-organizing aspect of it. Yes. And now I'm hearing that these self-organization knowledge of the cell's own knowledge about what they should do and when is maintained. And I also have to just both highlight again and applaud the fact that regardless of where one stood on the embryonic stem cell debate, you're describing Assembloids that were made from essentially taking a fibroblast, a skin cell exactly.

0 (1h 29m 10s):
From a patient or from a non-patient. A a healthy person that doesn't, at least doesn't have that mutation. Putting them in dish, reverting them to stemness through the Yamanaka Factors, then giving them certain things to drive them towards neuronal fates and then other fates putting them together. And none of this involves the use of aborted tissues. No. May I ask you this? If today you could bank your fibroblasts turned into a few neurons, would you do it knowing that those cells could eventually be used to create any tissue? Like I hope you live a very, very long life, Sergio, but let's say when you're a hundred, your heart has an issue.

0 (1h 29m 52s):
We humans can do heart transplants. Yeah. From another human. There are immune rejection issues there. Pig hearts have been transferred into humans. Yeah. But you, we could potentially, you could potentially build a heart that is of your cells no immune rejection. Why wouldn't you bank your cells?

2 (1h 30m 9s):
I think you, you can collect them at any time in principle as long as you,

0 (1h 30m 13s):
Okay. So you can get them on your 99th birthday. I

2 (1h 30m 14s):
Think you can still get them. Okay. For sure. It could be an argument. So

0 (1h 30m 17s):
You have time folks,

2 (1h 30m 18s):
Right. So it could be an argument made that all the cells are gonna be aging. So there're gonna be some changes happening in those cells. Maybe they have mutation. Yeah. That could be an argument made about it. On the other hand, what we are also seeing with some of the cell therapies that are just being developed now more broadly is that they don't have to be necessarily personalized. So they don't have to be made from your own cells because you know you can use immunosuppression. That's one way in which you can do it. So you can transplant the cells from somebody else. Of course that poses more challenges if you think about the brain replacing large parts of the brain. Which certainly is like Yeah.

2 (1h 30m 58s):
You know far to the future

0 (1h 30m 59s):
You wanna to be very careful whose brain they're taking

2 (1h 31m 0s):
In about, about. Yeah certainly. But in general, like you know, you can see how in the future we may have like off the shelf right cells that have been made from a generic individual that you transplant with immunosuppression or cells that have been genetically modified so that they're not rejected by the immune system. So they're compatible with all of us that it's much more likely to become a therapy that is broadly used. I think. So that's why I'm not that worried about like harvesting my own cells. Like right now

0 (1h 31m 32s):
Where do you sit on this idea that at some point in the not too distant future we will be able to immortalize entire organs within our body? Perhaps not ourselves, but our colleague Michael Snyder, chair of Genetics at Stanford told me that he thinks that at least in my lifetime I'm a little bit younger than he is, I'm almost 50, I forget how old Mike is, almost 70. But he said at least in my lifetime that immortal of tissues, human tissues will be possible. He doesn't think that's a a a a fantasy.

2 (1h 32m 7s):
Yeah. I think different people mean different things by immortalizing something we generally, you know, think like for in vitro studies or for an a dish study, when you immortalize something it means that the cell is maintained forever. But it generally involves using a cancer like factor, giving them cancer properties. I mean the cells that are immortalized, if you think about it, are either the Stem Cells that we talked about or the cancer cells. So we always have to be careful about like what it means to actually immortalized a cell Rejuvenate Cells. That's kinda like an interesting concept. Will we be able to actually rejuvenate ourselves even if they're aged? So a lot of discussions have been happening lately whether you can actually use the Yamanaka Factors, not to the extent that you completely reprogram a cell, but that you just use them, you know, just a little bit so that you rejuvenate the cells.

2 (1h 32m 60s):
Not fully, but as you can imagine, those are complicated experiments, right. They're gonna have to be tuned. You need to control very carefully the dial there

0 (1h 33m 8s):
Microdosing, Yamanaka Factors,

2 (1h 33m 10s):
Right? Because you would actually, you risk moving into another state. But you know, you know, that may be possible at one point.

0 (1h 33m 19s):
Yeah. I thought that at one point, one of the concerns of using Yamanaka Factors and this whole technology therapeutically was that you could set the reversal in age of cells back to stemness, back to Stem Cells. Yeah. But then how do you stop them there? And also how do you send them, I mean ultimately it's not a stem cell that you want, you want a fully differentiated heart cell or neuron. Right. You want to stop there. Right. I mean the idea being for anyone trying to reverse their age, I mean how far back are you willing to go?

2 (1h 33m 51s):
Right. Right. And it's true when you use the Yamanaka Factors or a combination of them. 'cause you know, we've discovered afterwards that it's not just those factors that can do that. There are combinations of other factors that can do the same. So there are various combinations, there is a lot of redundancy in that pathway. And if you hit the right combinations in a cell at the right time, you can push it back in time. Now of course the challenge is that you know, that reprogramming is full in the sense that everything is gonna be erased if, if the reprogramming is done properly directly, all the methylation. So all this metal groups that you put across DNA that you know, accumulate with age are gonna be removed.

2 (1h 34m 35s):
All the sort of like the, all the signatures of, you know, are essentially removed. So the cells truly rejuvenated as like in the beginning. And as you mentioned, you know, perhaps you don't want do that Right. Fully, can you do it in a way that is partial reprogramming as some people refer to. But, but certainly that these are still like early days for that. But certainly it's a possibility

0 (1h 34m 57s):
I think for most people, if I said, look, scientists are developing engineering eyes that can replace eyes, people that are blind, maybe one eye, maybe both. They'd say great. Right. You know, you're curing blindness effectively. Yeah. And people are trying to do this. Neuralink is doing this, EJ KY and Dan Lanker at Stanford are trying to do this. Yeah. If I said, you know, there are scientists and companies trying to develop chips so that paralyzed people can walk again, or that people who have locked in syndrome can speak again through one modality or another. They'd say great.

0 (1h 35m 37s):
But if I said there are scientists who are building Assembloids in a dish so that maybe you don't have like two hippo kem eye, you have three, you have a super memory. Yeah. I think most people will be like, whoa, slow down. You're playing God, that's not okay. And as a parallel example, CRISPR Gene Therapy, which we talked about earlier Yeah. Was employed by a Chinese scientist to, I think it was to mutate the HIV receptor

2 (1h 36m 10s):
To modify Yeah. To individuals, two babies.

0 (1h 36m 14s):
Yeah. So there are at least two babies that we're aware of and probably more around the world, but not terribly many who, for whom CRISPR was used to make a genetic modification. Those babies were carried to term and it wasn't to fix any particular disease, it was to confer them with something additional.

2 (1h 36m 32s):
Yeah. To, to prevent, in this case, to prevent presumed transmission of HIV from the mother, which is not necessarily justified in that case. No,

0 (1h 36m 41s):
Right. Did the mother have HIVI

2 (1h 36m 44s):
Think the idea was that, yeah, to avoid maternal transmission to the fetus, you would like not have that. But there are other ways in which that can actually be avoided. So in this case, it was not perhaps the best choice of a disease to correct. And I, I think that's why the scientific community has been quite outraged by both gets the rationale and the way the experiment was done, which not following certainly

0 (1h 37m 9s):
Yeah. Yeah. The, the scientific community as you as you said, was very upset about that. Which brings us to, to the question of Ethics. Yes. So I'm sure being really familiar with this technology, that you've thought about a number of ethical issues that aren't going to occur to me or perhaps you've heard about things from the general public or from physicians and psychiatrists. What are some of the key ethical issues that come to mind when thinking about how Assembloids are going to be implemented as eventually treatments for disease? Yeah,

2 (1h 37m 37s):
So we think a lot about like the ethical issues. And we think this as a group at Stanford that's part of like my center. We have like Hank Greeley who's a professor of law and an ethicist, but actually we've engaged many ethicists sociologists of religions. We're actually gonna have the first meeting at OSR this November on the Ethics of neuro Organoids Assembloids and their transplantation. And you know, there are various ways of classifying the ethical issues. The way I, so I think about it is that on one hand there are ethical issues that are related to the cells. We are taking cells from a human. And so you expect that you have received proper consent for the use of those cells, whatever that is.

2 (1h 38m 18s):
On the other hand, if for instance you put them into an animal, then there are ethical issues related to that animal. Are you doing any harm? How do we manage pain in the in, in that animal that has been transplanted? And then there are sort of like issues that are at the interface between the two. So for instance, are there any emergent properties that are arising at one point, whether they're like in a dish or maybe perhaps in an animal. How complex can a circuit like this become? Is there any form of learning of computation? Of course some people have raised the issue that perhaps there is sentient or awareness consciousness. Are they feeling pain? So for instance, that has been like one critique for one of the recent work that we've done.

2 (1h 39m 1s):
Of course in that case we know, you know, the emotional component of pain is processed in different brain regions. We don't have those in addition. So we know that they're not really feeling pain. We have the pathway of pain, but also speaks to the fact that we need to be very careful about how we communicate this type of research. Even just using terms that are trivializing and actually create a lot of confusion. And the classic example in our field has been to call this preparations this organs to Assembloids, to call them mini brains, right? Then it may seem like as a trivial joke that it can do anything, you know, any harm. But you hear that for the first time scientists have made mini brains in a dish.

2 (1h 39m 44s):
Right. And what do you think? You think, oh, it must be a miniature human brain that they're keeping in a dish. Right? Isolated. And of course that's not true. We have not made the entire nervous system. We can make parts of the nervous system, we can put them in various combinations, but we've never made the entire brain, actually, I don't know of any scientist who has as a goal to try to build the entire nervous system as an exact replica of the brain. So I think the words matter a lot. And In fact, that has been, you know, one of the things that we've done over the years, a few years ago, I thought it would be really important to get most of the scientists in the field together and start thinking about these terms really carefully.

2 (1h 40m 26s):
And so we got together, created sort of like an ad hoc consortium and through many, many calls, one-on-one in various groups, we came up with one paper, which was published in nature a couple of years ago, which really comes as a nomenclature for the field. We as scientists decided this are, so like the way we classify them, these are the terms that we all agreed should be used and not used. Not for instance, you know, project, let's say complex terms onto this. We'll never say that an organoid like sees just because there's a retina, right? We'll never say that a cortical organoid has intelligence because that's a property of an entire nervous system. So we think that this is actually quite important, especially in communicating with the public.

2 (1h 41m 10s):
And that that consortium turned out to be an actually great exercise of getting everybody together and now thinking what are some of the common practices that we should all use when we report this experiment. So we just had a few months ago another paper that came also as a perspective in science where in nature where we also lay it out. So like the framework for the field. I think this also speaks to the fact that we're entering sort of like a new year in science where I think, you know, you would say all these labs are working separately, they're competing with each other. And yet we all got together, you know, 25 or so labs discuss some of these issues, reach some consensus, you know, and I think that moves the field forward. And I think in general in science, we will need more and more of this collaborative efforts because the science is getting more complex.

2 (1h 41m 57s):
Biology is getting really, really complex and there's no one single app that can solve all of that.

0 (1h 42m 1s):
Yeah, I completely agree. I think some years back collaboration became the norm as opposed to the occasional thing. And I always thought that laboratories should be named after projects missions as opposed to individuals. But that's a, that's another story. Well, kudos to you for thinking about these issues so carefully and for gathering people around them in order to come up with nomenclature. Going back to this issue of naming what things are called is so critical. It's so critical and, and we see this in the public health sphere, you know, when people talk about gain of function research now. Yeah. You know, it's rarely mentioned that, you know, gain of function studies are critical for understanding things that it's not always the case. You're mutating a virus.

0 (1h 42m 42s):
It's like gain of function is a general technology, more specificity of language I think is going to be immensely beneficial. So I appreciate you doing that

2 (1h 42m 50s):
And, and this terms change with time. I think it's also important to like mention that our understanding evolves, science progresses and sometimes there are things that we thought we understood and then new techniques come and change that. You know, I think it was Sidney Brenner who said that progress in science usually comes from a new technique that will yield new discoveries and that will create new ideas. So, you know, you think you understand something and suddenly you have a new machine that can measure it much better with more precision. Or let's say you have this technology when you can now recreate some of the circuits and suddenly new ideas come out of it, new discoveries, and then we rethink and we adjust. And I think that's the beauty of science, that in a way it's self-correcting as we get a better and better understanding of the world around us.

0 (1h 43m 36s):
Also essential for people to hear because I think whenever science or medicine comes out and tries to correct itself, often the general public, not all but components of the general public will go up in arms as, you know, similar to like a teenager realizing that their parents also did some bad stuff when they were younger. And they're like, see, I shouldn't believe anything you say. It turns out science is a, as a whole, I think is a very well-intentioned endeavor. You get your occasional bad apples. But I think that this notion of self-correction is it's fundamental. Yeah. Just like engineering's gotten better. Yeah. The phone you use now doesn't look anything like Right. In terms of technology or speed or the phone you used 10 years ago.

0 (1h 44m 17s):
Likewise with, with any, any technology

2 (1h 44m 19s):
That that's why it's so important that both when we communicate as sciences to the public, we use terms that are not trivializing. I think very often we're, we're told like, you know, try to simplify so that the public understand, the public understands much more than we think. You know, there are always ways in which you can explain something without trivializing it, without using a new term or, you know, some comparison so that they understand that. Because very often an analogies can also be dangerous. Right. But I think, you know, I I always sort of like assume, and that is sort of like being my, you know, my mantra that, you know, somebody really has, when you explain even to the general public that you know, they have zero knowledge and yet, you know, infinite intelligence, right?

2 (1h 45m 0s):
I think as, as the saying goes in science. So I think there are always ways of explaining science very simply, but also communicating that science changes over time. That there are new understandings that are correcting the science. And we've seen this of course in medicine, we've sadly seen it in psychiatry right. Many, many times by labeling relabeling doing treatments that perhaps were like not the most, you know, fortunate right. Over time. But I think it's important to tell the public that, you know, we're, you know, always trying to move towards, I think most physicians that I know, most psychiatrists that I know are really motivated by really trying to make their patient better.

0 (1h 45m 39s):
So let's play a, a game where if I say if you take two human cortical neurons Or three or five or 10 or a thousand that were developed from, you know, one of my fibroblasts and you put it into a mouse or a non-human primate, like a macca monkey, I think you've still got a mouse harboring a few of my neurons or a macca monkey, har harboring a few of my neurons. At what point does that animal no longer become strictly a mouse or strictly a primate? And then the parallel example of course is let's say I could get some neurons from fibroblasts that were made from you and those were put into my brain, right?

0 (1h 46m 28s):
At what point do I become more Sergio like than Andrew like? Sure. Yeah. So how do you think about those questions? And it, while it might seem too early to consider those, we've learned through history that it's never too early. It's to start thinking about the ethical implications it of, of a technology like this where there's transplantation involved.

2 (1h 46m 46s):
No, it is absolutely not too early. Actually, it's the right time to think about this is as experiments are actually being planned, not when experiments have been done. Ah, good point. And that's what we've been, that's what we've been doing. And that's why actually, you know, all experiments that we do undergo ethical approval in Stanford, we, you know, and I think most major institutions, right? And it's certainly in the United States, you have to first propose what you're gonna do, especially with pluripotent Stem Cells and especially with animals. And a committee, you know, will decide whether that is acceptable or not. Now of course there are experiments that perhaps are not necessarily illegal, but you know, when you kind like try to break a new frontier. But I think what it's important to think about like this process of transplanting or transplantation that you take cells and you put them either in another individual or another species, is that what really matters A lot we've learned now is the timing when you actually transplant those cells.

2 (1h 47m 41s):
So it turns out that the brain, the adult brain is not very permissive to forming new connections. We don't form that many. We may form small connections. There's a lot of plasticity at the connections, but we don't have, let's say in our adult brains, we don't have cells that are moving now across the nervous system. We don't have entire pathways that are being rewired. You know, you're never gonna have a cortical neuron that just simply regrows and now connects to a spinal cordons. Which is why injury to the nervous system is so devastating, right? There's so little recovery because the cells are usually not, you know, not essentially rejuvenating. There are no cells that are replenishing them. It's not just that there are no cells to actually replace them. It's also that the cells are just not that eager to connect with other cells as they are early in development.

2 (1h 48m 27s):
And so years ago we've discovered that, you know, while we can keep some of these cultures in the dish for very long periods of time and connect them in ever more complex Assembloids, and now they're like literally like dozens and hundreds of Assembloids that people have made. And not just in the nervous system, actually even outside of the nervous system. 'cause now there are Assembloids of cardiac EMS and endometrial ems. And so the concepts sort like took over and I'm, I'm glad to talk about it. We're gonna have the first conference on EMS at Cole Spring Harbor this year, which is sort of like to bridge across field and try to understand complex cells, cell interactions. But even with this most complex Assembloids, we realized that the cells are still missing cues that are present in vitro.

2 (1h 49m 7s):
So a few years ago we were doing an experiment looking at some of the neurons that we made in a dish. And you know, these neurons in the cortex are very often called peral because they look like a pyramid. They really have this beautiful triangular shape. We were looking at the neuron and it looked beautiful, exact like a pyramidal neuron. And then around that time we got a piece of tissue that was removed from a child who underwent surgery for Epilepsy. So when you sometimes have to undergo the surgeries intractable severe, maybe you talked about this like previously you have to remove some tissue. When you remove some of that tissue, you also have to remove some healthy tissue. And so we got some of that healthy tissue.

2 (1h 49m 48s):
And of course we're always like eager to understand how the cells that were made in a dish are similar or dissimilar to the ones in the actual brain. We still like need to benchmark before we use that for a therapy or for anything else. And we compare one day some of the cells and we realized to our amazement, and I don't know how we'd never noticed it or nobody has really like made a big deal out of it, but the neurons that we're making in the dish were about 10 times smaller than the ones in the cortex on average. I mean, there were kind of like miniature versions of what was happening. And so it was like, of course immediately it was like, what is happening in vivo? You know, is there something, you know, as they say in vivo veritas very often, right?

2 (1h 50m 29s):
We know this has been the case for immunology that many experiments in vitro have not always panned once you actually study them in the natural patient. So that's when we actually started to also use transplantation. Meaning we started thinking could we actually put some of the cells in an animal and see whether they acquire new properties or they look much more like they said. Of course transplantation has been used for four years. Many of these experiments were done before I was born, especially in Sweden, when scientists will actually take various cells and transplant them into animals. And so what we did, we started doing is like taking actual Organoids, cortical Organoids and then transplanting them into a rat, a early born rat in the, so in the somatosensory cortex.

2 (1h 51m 16s):
So the, so like the, the part of the brain that senses it receives information from whiskers and done that. We, we've done that in the first few days after birth. And it turned out that that was key. 'cause if you do it later, the cells don't really integrate that well. They integrate but they don't fully integrate. And if you transplant that organ of it into the somatosensory cortex of the rat and then you wait for a few months, that graft starts to grow, the cells become vascularized by the rat. They will even receive microglia, the immune cells of the nervous system of the rat start to populate. And then when you use look on an MRI, you now can see that about a third of one hemisphere of the rat is now made up of human cells.

2 (1h 51m 59s):
So you can see really from on an MRI from the ventricle to the pi. Now you may think that that's sort of like an inner-ear piece of tissue that sits there, but it turns out that it is quite well connected to the host. And that happens because the brain is still eager to connect at that early stage of development, but later on is not. And so for instance, you can do experiments where you can actually record the activity of human neurons and at the same time move the whiskers of the rat. So if you move the whiskers of the rat onto the opposite side, obviously because the pathway is crossed, then human neurons now start to respond to that. And then the, I think probably the most important consequence of that is that they receive now input. They're now in an environment that is much more physiological.

2 (1h 52m 41s):
So when we now looked at the cells, it turned out that they're like six to eight fold larger than when we were making the dish. They're not yet iden identical replica, but they're very, very close. And that for us has actually been key in started to actually understand the biology of some of these conditions. So for instance, for Timothy Syndrome, there is a very dramatic effect in the size of the neurons. They're almost twice as smaller than a controlled neuron

0 (1h 53m 10s):
In the patient.

2 (1h 53m 11s):
Well, in the patient only when you transplant the cells, we can see that defect in a dish. You look at them and they're identical and then you transplant them. And some of them grow really large to control and the patients fail. And that phenotype can only really be seen properly in vivo. So that has been actually essential also as we've been developing a therapeutic for this condition. And you start thinking like, how do you test a therapeutic? You know, if there's no animal model of the disease, you test everything in a dish, you do wanna have some safety check, first of all for making sure that there are no adverse effects. But also you wanna make sure that it works in an in vivo environment. And actually turns out that this model that we've built was essential because now we could take actually the animal and inject the therapeutic into the nervous system of the animal, but look at the effect on human neurons in an in vivo context.

2 (1h 54m 4s):
And you know, so I think that's one application for this. But if you do the transplantation at an later stage, like for instance in an adult, that integration will probably not happen.

0 (1h 54m 13s):
I see.

2 (1h 54m 14s):
So it's quite dependent on the species. And there's another thing, the farther away the species are, the less likely it is of course that the cells will integrate. So, you know, think about it, it takes just a couple of weeks for the rat to make the cortex. It takes us 20 weeks to make most of the cortical cells. So the human cells are always behind. The rat is finishing development very quickly. The humans are trying, but they're keeping their pace. So the integration between the two species happens at some level but is not perfect. And that's actually not our goal. Our goal has never really been to have perfect integration. All we wanted to do is to have a better system where we can capture aspect of disease that we wouldn't be able to see in another way or test therapeutics that we wouldn't be able to test in any other way.

2 (1h 55m 1s):
And so that's where this actually comes in handy. And it's been very useful.

0 (1h 55m 6s):
It's so interesting that for most people, again, I'm making a lot of assumptions here, but for most people, the idea of of a chip of a, you know, electrode implanted into the brain of a patient or spinal cord of a patient isn't that disturbing to them? I mean, no one would choose to do that in the absence of a clinical issue, but well there are some people who are interested in brain augmentation through the implantation of chips to create super memory or to be able to, you know, process more bits of information in whatever, whatever capacity. But typically it's discussed in the therapeutic context. But as soon as we hear about, for instance, you know, a pig heart or baboon the heart was, was transplanted into a human, you know, all of a sudden it's, it gets to some really core things about our humanness.

0 (1h 55m 52s):
Yeah. And then of course I can't help but be reminded of all the anecdotes that you hear where, oh, you know, a patient died, had donated their heart to medicine, the heart was transferred and then the person who received it thought that maybe they had adopted some features of Sure. The person's experience. And there's a, you know, you can't really do the control experiment, but there's a lot of interesting questions that that border on mystical. Yeah. But that, you know, given that experience is mapped into the nervous system, it's not inconceivable that you would have memory traces at least of bodily experiences built into the organ system. Although typically we think of that stuff as in the brain. So, you know, as I hear and learn more about these incredible Assembloids, I'm very enthusiastic about where this is headed.

0 (1h 56m 38s):
I also of course think that treatment of disease is the, is like the primary entry point. This is what Yes. You know, as opposed to building, you know, super humans, which is I think why that CRISPR experiment mutating the HIV receptor was also disparaged. There was this idea that maybe the HIV receptor, in the absence of HIV is performing other roles related to learning and memory. Right? And so there was this, there were kind of hints of eugenic type approaches. And that raises a question for me. You mentioned that there are many Genes that are associated with autism. Yeah. I think most parents or parents to be, don't take a test for those Genes. Other companies like Orchid in the Bay Area now that will do deep sequencing of embryos in the IVF, you know, they'll do, depending on how much you pay, they'll sequence more.

0 (1h 57m 24s):
This was in the news a few weeks or months ago. Yeah. And people, and people start thinking, oh, this is like eugenics. Right? On the other hand, partner selection who one chooses to have children with is its own form of genetic selection. Yeah. They'll say, oh, you know, he's very kind. She's very kind, she's very smart. You know that there yeah. People are basing their decisions, hopefully according to features that they would like to create in the offspring. It's not always the case. But, so I think sometimes the, the boundary between, you know, what we call eugenics and mate selection and creating offspring in the purely old fashioned way, it's a, it's blurry, it becomes a continuum.

0 (1h 58m 4s):
How far off are we from genetic testing of parents as a kind of obligatory thing now that we know some of the Genes associated with autism. We test parents for things like sac, sickle cell anemia, down syndrome, congenital adrenal hyperplasia, things that we that are almost deterministic. Yes. Down syndrome, right? Trisomy. And in some countries they'll implant embryos that are not, as we say, euploid, you know, the, the proper assortment of chromosomes. But in, in the US typically that's discouraged. Yeah. Yeah. So, so how do you think about all this?

0 (1h 58m 46s):
Like it, I mean, you're not responsible for deciding for everyone, but you, you're right at the kind of a leading edge of, of what's possible. And you can kind of sniff what's going to be possible. I mean, how much information should a person thinking about having a child have Yeah. In order to make the best informed decisions. So

2 (1h 59m 6s):
For, for some of these conditions, you know, it's more straightforward than for others. You know, as, as you were saying, some of them are very deterministic. So if you have like 3 21 chromosomes, you're gonna have down syndrome and that's gonna be associated with a very classic presentation. You know? But for others it turns out, and I think that's where it's much more complicated than just testing and making a decision, is that the, what we call in Genetics, the penetrance of the genetic mutations is variable. Meaning that you could have a genetic mutation that in one patient could cause a very severe presentation or a phenotype and another would be very mild.

2 (1h 59m 48s):
It's not the case for Timus syndrome where actually it's quite predictable. Most of the patients that we know, we've never identified a patient who is non-affected and they're very severely affected. But there are other conditions that are much more common. I think the classic one is a deletion that is happening on chromosome 22, the so-called 22 Q1 1.2 deletion syndrome known by many, many names, velo, cardio facial syndrome, the jaw syndrome, known by many names because it's been, it's so common, it's actually the most common micro deletion in humans about one in 3000 births. Now the condition is associated with cardiac issues, immune conditions, you know, many of which can actually be addressed medically.

2 (2h 0m 36s):
But it also comes with a 30% risk for Schizophrenia.

0 (2h 0m 40s):
30%.

2 (2h 0m 41s):
Yeah. So you think the general population is 1%. So this is about 30 times higher. It also comes with the 30% risk of autism. But you could also not have any of this. There are individuals who are carrying the 22 Q1 1.2 deletion, which is a large deletion by the way. There's 60 Genes that are gone in the classic deletion and yet still carry it around and have minimal defect or phenotypes.

0 (2h 1m 9s):
Do we test for this 22 Q?

2 (2h 1m 11s):
This is tested generally these days. Yes, because it's so common. But I think that the challenge is this problem of penetrance. And in some patients, and we don't know what the context is, each of us has a very complex genetic background. So it could be that, you know, the same mutation, two different individuals will have different levels of severity because one of them perhaps compensates much better for whatever reason. There's a lot of sarcastic forces in development. And if a cell, it's much faster at opening the other gene, you know, like the similar gene that is unmutated. And in the other case it wasn't. And or maybe there are other environmental factors that are, you know, interacting. But the other possibility is that the genetic background that we have is very different.

2 (2h 1m 55s):
And so we're still like in early days of truly understanding what are the effects of the genetic backgrounds in modulating the severity of these conditions. But in itself, it's a very interesting question why some individuals can have, you know, a massive deletion right. Of 60 Genes and yet still move around. So I think that that, that's gonna be a lot of interesting biologists to discover behind this. And then of course we know that there are differences between animals and humans, right? That, that we already know that very often a mutation that would be very severe in a human has almost no, you know, defect in an animal model. Partly because that gene may be, plays a different role or perhaps the genetic background is very different.

0 (2h 2m 37s):
Speaking of which, what are some of the other diseases that are being modeled and studied with Assembloids?

2 (2h 2m 43s):
So Timothy Syndrome has sort of like been the first example because partly because it was some of the first neurons that were derived from IPS cells and from patients with neurodevelopmental disorders in those early days. And also partly because it's the disease that we studied so much on all possible angles. First with 2D neurons, then with 3D Organoids, then with the OIDs that at one point, and I like to say that it kinda like a therapy became self-evident, so to speak. I mean we were honestly not, I was not thinking that we would develop a therapy for Timothy Syndrome, like not in the near future. But at one point we just accumulated enough biological information that you just look at it and you say, oh, this is exactly what we need to do.

2 (2h 3m 29s):
And it turns out that, and this we did about like five years ago, that we understood so well how this channel is processed in the cells and what it causes, that at one point we realized that all we need to do is generate this tiny piece of nucleic acid that we can get inside the cells. It will go in, switch the way the channel is actually processed and rescue or reverse the phenotypes. And it turns out that every single defect that we've described over the past 15 years in the studies can be rescued by just adding the tiny piece of nucleic acid. It's almost like a Gene Therapy in a way. It just doesn't involve a virus. And so this is the first disease and we're preparing for a clinical trial. This patients are very rare.

2 (2h 4m 10s):
So I've been traveling around the world trying to find most patients with Heto syndrome, even try to understand the complexity of the disease, the severity of the disease. And so we now have a large cohort of the patients ready and we're preparing for the first clinical trial. We already started producing the drug.

0 (2h 4m 24s):
So it's druggable,

2 (2h 4m 26s):
We think that it's druggable. But this will be the first therapeutic for a psychiatric disease that has been exclusively developed with Human Stem Cell Models without anything else, you know, like to joke, but probably you knew very well lu dryer. He

0 (2h 4m 39s):
Developed the so-called gene ship early days of evaluating Genes in different cells. He passed away recently. Sadly he passed

2 (2h 4m 46s):
Away

0 (2h 4m 46s):
Ly sadly. He also, yeah, he would bring coffee by.

2 (2h 4m 49s):
He would bring coffee by, yeah, he had our office across our D 2 2 2, right. So he would come at nine. Anyone

0 (2h 4m 55s):
Who's ever taken biochemistry, the big red biochemistry book, Steyer.

2 (2h 4m 59s):
It's Stre. It's Lubert. That's what it is. I mean, he was an amazing communicator I think above anything. He was just a larger than life figure who like be able to like go with you in a conversation from like a deep molecular mechanism to what does that actually mean? Yeah,

0 (2h 5m 12s):
Very kind person too.

2 (2h 5m 13s):
So my last conversation with Lubert, which happened I think a month before he passed away, he came to my office at Stanford. We would meet like every few months. He was just like so interested about like how this is evolving. And I remember he was sitting in my office and then he wanted to know, where are you with Timothy Syndrome? The paper was still on the revision at nature was coming in the next few months. And, and then he said like, you know, like the saddest thing is like, I'm not gonna see this paper published. Like I wanna see this paper published. And I said like, why? And he goes, do you know what you've done? You know, 'cause you would usually use with that intensity. And I thought like, oh my god, maybe, You know, he realized some, you know, we've made the mistake somewhere in the paper or like, you know, it's gonna point out to some flaw.

2 (2h 5m 55s):
And then he says, no, you've demystified the psychiatric disease. I said, what do you mean? I said, well you think about psychiatric disorders, they're so esoteric, so complex mental processes in, you know, that are arising behavioral changes. And yet you went all the way down to like a molecular defect, a point mutation, figure out the rest. And now you're on a verge of potentially, you know, perhaps not reversing, but at least improving some. So he was so excited about this. I think I never kinda like think enough perhaps about it, but he was the last one who sort of like reminded about like how important it is actually to focus on these genetic disorders of which we know more. Of course this is one, just one form of disease.

2 (2h 6m 37s):
There are so many more afterwards. But our hope is that just by understanding and learning from this, we're gonna be able to apply to other disorders. So another one there're studying. Now there are formal of Epilepsy, which are very difficult to study. There are intractable forms of epilepsies patients who have some of these genetic mutations, whether they're in an ion channel or in molecules that are important for cells to stick with each other. They can cause 60 seizures a day, right? So they're really devastating conditions. They're actually causing impairment just by having those seizures every single day for 10, 15 years. And so those are a really big issue right now. So we've been focusing a lot on trying to build now models for this epileptic seizures, either through in vitro studies or after we transplant.

2 (2h 7m 20s):
And then we study more complex, complex networks in patients. And then of course intellectual disability. So severe intellectual disability, Schizophrenia, forms of Schizophrenia. So we've been studying now for almost 12, 13 years, 22 Q1 one deletion syndrome. We think it's so like an entry point, it's the highest genetic risk factor that we know of for Schizophrenia. So we think it may give us some windows into how, you know, molecular defects arise. So I think all, you know, you can think of most psychiatric and neurological conditions that you can study now as long as they have a strong biological genetic component. So I think those that have a social component, those that are triggered by social stress, let's say, right, like forms of anxiety, you know, depression, those are much more challenging to study because of course we can mimic that social environment.

0 (2h 8m 14s):
Can I make a request please? That someone in your lab tried to tackle Dystonia? Mm,

2 (2h 8m 20s):
Yes.

0 (2h 8m 21s):
I had the experience last year of somebody contacting me. I get contacted a lot, you know, for requests to help with horribly sad situations, right? As one does, if you're in the neuroscience field, typically it's people with visual deficits who've gone blind or losing their vision. This time it was a, a mother of a, a young kid who had a form of Dystonia where he was essentially just going from a, by all accounts, normal, appearing an acting kid to having basically no ability to move or do anything, couldn't go to camp, couldn't go to school, and just, it was just a, a very, very tragic situation. He had a neurosurgery, I will know soon how, how he's doing, but I learned that these Dystonia are not super uncommon.

0 (2h 9m 6s):
Yeah. I mean fortunately they're, they're uncommon enough, but you just have to witness one of these stories. Yeah. And, and it turns out there there is a genetic basis for these. Yes. Yeah. So I'm putting in a vote for Dystonia. No, for the parent and for the child. It's, it's devastating. And we don't hear from these people very often and they're, they're sociological reasons for that. Certain diseases are underrepresented in the public sphere. Yeah. Autism, we hear a lot about not just because of the prevalence, but because there's a, we have a certain affinity to kids and that, that explains that a discussion for another time. But these Dystonia are very hard to witness in a way that has made them kind of veiled Yeah.

0 (2h 9m 53s):
To, to the public. And they, but they're very, very detrimental. And it would be amazing. I know you already have a lot on your plate, but I'm putting in a strong vote for, for but

2 (2h 10m 2s):
Dystonia. But we are, we are actually working on, on Dystonia because there are devastating conditions and there are now genetic mutations that cause really severe forms of dyskinesia and Dystonia. So really uncontrollable movements in these kids that are really devastating for social functioning and in general, in general for development. And so we do know a little bit about the biology behind it. We do know that the basal ganglia, this deep structure into the brain is very important for movements. You know, we very often stimulate that brain region for Parkinson's disease or parts, you know, of those circuitry. So we know it's very important. So we've been trying to rebuild it in a dish. So we now can build some of the circuits, we call them loop OIDs, where essentially you can put a cortex and we've made the striatum and then you put parts of the mesencephalon and the midbrain and the thalamus awesome.

2 (2h 10m 48s):
And the cells connect in a loop and now they have activity. So you can now induce mutations at various levels of the circuit and see where is that mutation most important. So let's say if you were to develop a Gene Therapy, where would you deliver that gene? Right? If you were to choose, if you can't deliver it in the entire brain. So this are really so like early days, but I think the, it can be applied and I, I think in general, you know, you were mentioning this before about autism, right? And this, you know, even the ability of sort of like communicating this disorders or how much awareness there is. Right. I think when I refer to autism, I generally refer to the severe forms and profound autism.

2 (2h 11m 28s):
And as we discussed earlier, there are certainly a continuum and there are many individuals that are high functioning, right? There are, they have high skills. They may lack certain social skills, but they have other skills. They're different, they're productive in society. I am not talking about discovering or developing a therapeutic for any of these individuals. We are talking about the profound forms of autism, the ones that actually the parents are still struggling to even communicate about. Right? The, the kids who may never go to school may never be able to actually live on their own. The same is the case for many of these patients with severe Dystonia.

2 (2h 12m 11s):
So I think it's very important because I think in the case of autism, partly because it's being talked about, and again because it is a, a spectrum is, you know, it's also part of the identity, right. Of a part of the population. And that's absolutely fine. You think perhaps like at one point having different terms? Yeah,

0 (2h 12m 29s):
That would be

2 (2h 12m 29s):
Useful. It may be useful. 'cause we were talking before about terminology, which is so important. So perhaps that would be sort of like useful at one point to define, you know, the border between profound forms of autism and forms of autism that are, are not really a disease.

0 (2h 12m 45s):
Yeah. As well-meaning as the psychiatric community is, it's bound by this, you know, DSM, whatever number it happens to be on five for understandable reasons, but I think better nomenclature absolutely would really help. It has societal implications. It has to do with how we treat people generally. Actually just as a quick reflection, years ago I sat down with Bob DeSimone, who, you know, world class neuroscientist as you know, but he was the head of the National Institutes of Mental Health at that time. And he said to me directly, it was over lunch, he said, do you know why there's so much more money spent trying to understand autism as opposed to Schizophrenia? At least that was the case at the time, and I think it is still now.

0 (2h 13m 25s):
I said no. And he said, because the strong genetic link in Schizophrenia means that oftentimes the parents are struggling as well. They're not bringing their children in and with severe nowadays it's not politically correct to call them schizophrenics for people with severe Schizophrenia. It's scary to be around. Yeah. It, it's really scary. Whereas with autism, even in the profound cases, these are children and as a human species, we, we naturally have this, we want to care for our young and it just, it just pulls on us. And he said, you know, so there's been this incredible lobby of the government and therefore pressure on NIH to direct funds towards studying autism, far, far less for Schizophrenia.

0 (2h 14m 12s):
It's interesting, you know, in light of the homeless problem in California and elsewhere and the huge amount of mental disease and drug addiction, I think nowadays there's a kind of a broader understanding of brain diseases as diseases that people suffer from as opposed to cold mothering or something. Right. You know, like ridiculous theories like that. Yeah. I definitely wanna talk a little bit about you not getting too personal here, but I've known you for some years and from the first time I met you, it was clear you were gonna work on something important, you were gonna figure it out and your, your work ethic is like something to behold without inflating numbers. How much time are, are you spending these days, either at the computer working on things related to your science or in the lab or thinking about your science, I mean of, of your waking hours?

0 (2h 15m 2s):
What percentage? Well,

2 (2h 15m 3s):
I've never seen this at work, so probably all the time I think about this all the time. I mean, luckily now of course I have a lab of incredible scientists and many of them now have their own labs and we've been teaching so many people around the world now, like more than 350 labs around the world to just implement this technology very systematically through courses that we do at Stanford. So I feel we've kinda like amplified so much that there's always something happening, but I've never seen it honestly at work. I mean, I think it's, it's, it's so fun to think about, you know, the human brain. It, it's certainly fascinating to think about the biology of this conditions. And of course for me, training as a physician, I think seeing firsthand some of the devastating effects of, of psychiatric disorders, which was a very strong, you know, motivation to actually go into neuroscience.

0 (2h 15m 50s):
I'll never forget when the org, when your first paper was published as a postdoc, yes.

2 (2h 15m 56s):
You

0 (2h 15m 56s):
Brought in a cake for everyone else. I don't know if you remember that. No, I don't. You brought in cake for everyone else. I don't remember. And I was like, this is the first time I've ever observed this. This is awesome.

2 (2h 16m 7s):
At

0 (2h 16m 8s):
The time I was eating cake. I don't eat cake anymore. With each successive decade, I, I get stricter and stricter with my eating. I still enjoy food very much. But it's, it really speaks to your, your spirit and your generosity. I feel so blessed that someday I'll be able to say, I can tell you stories from way back when D 2 2 2, when we took over that room without permission. I think we just did it.

2 (2h 16m 28s):
I, I think we we just took it. Yeah. Which

0 (2h 16m 30s):
Is the way to, which is the way to do it.

2 (2h 16m 31s):
It's unincorporated though. Well,

0 (2h 16m 32s):
Ben was the one who always said, you know, ask for forgiveness, not permission within the proper context of doing science. He, he was famous for bringing his experiments to talks as a postdoc so he wouldn't lose time on his experiments. He, and then I think at one point there's a story where someone, he called it out, him out and said, Hey, you know, like, why are you bringing your experiments to seminars? Everyone else is drinking coffee and doing stuff. And he said, because I don't know if your seminars gonna be any good and I don't wanna waste the time on my experiments. You know, he had such a, an incredible spirit about just ceaseless pursuit of knowledge, which clearly you do as well. Sergio, I am so grateful for you taking time out of your immensely busy schedule to come here and educate us all on this incredible technology that you've developed and that other laboratories are now using.

0 (2h 17m 21s):
I realize it's a field, but clearly a field that you've been seminal and launching. And you know, I think for a lot of people, if they were to just hear about Organoids in the news or hear, okay, we took these neurons and we were able to grow them in a dish and they formed some things that resemble circuits and we're putting them into mice, they say, you know, this sounds a lot like a parlor trick or something that scientists do to keep themselves busy with our tax dollars. But I just want to thank you because you've beautifully illustrated the linear fashion in which you've gone from human disease to building up technologies. One cell type in a dish, two cell types, circuits in a dish, three synapses modeling using drugs and other approaches, genetic therapies to figure out what actually needs to be fixed.

0 (2h 18m 7s):
Going back into patients, which is super exciting. I'm absolutely convinced this is the way science is going to be done on the brain to cure neurologic and psychiatric diseases. I'm absolutely convinced because animal models, while they have their place, they just can't recapitulate everything we're interested in. And we know that, as you mentioned from other fields. So whatever we have to do to keep you going, you look younger than the last time I saw you, which was a while ago. So you told me before we started, you walk a lot. How many steps a day are you doing? I

2 (2h 18m 36s):
Do more than 12, 15,000 for sure.

0 (2h 18m 39s):
So you're walking to and from work?

2 (2h 18m 41s):
Yeah, and I walk all the time. I like to walk, especially when I travel. I, you know, I visit a lot Europe and parts of the world and I love to just walk and art is the only other thing that I do. Oh yeah. Other than science, I love art. You paint. I used to paint right now is mostly thinking about art and like what, you know, I've, I've seen most museums in Europe at this point, like several times whose

0 (2h 19m 2s):
Art is exciting. You now, I'm, I'm fascinated by, I love art, but whose art are you intrigued by lately?

2 (2h 19m 8s):
Well, I mean I've, my favorites have always been impressionist, but then I go through phases and so I, I love all art as an expression and I think that's sort of like, you know, I walk a lot in museums. I think you could, you could probably trace like where I've done most of the walking and it's probably done in museums or in California walking at night. And so like discussing science with students or others.

0 (2h 19m 30s):
Fantastic. And none of this biohacking nonsense. You eat one meal a day, that's how you stay so fit.

2 (2h 19m 35s):
I generally eat one meal a day. Yeah. How long

0 (2h 19m 37s):
Have you been doing that?

2 (2h 19m 39s):
Years, I think years. I mean, I think in Medical School initially as a necessity, because I grew up in Romania and I went to Medical School there and there wasn't really dedicated time for research, so I had no option but to do my experiments either very early in the morning or very late at night. So there would be very little time to actually like eat, to be honest at that time. So I felt I was like running all the time doing experiments or clinical work.

0 (2h 20m 6s):
Well, like I said, your, your vigor seems to be just increasing with time and it's, it's really wonderful. Clearly you, you found the, the career path for you and it's gonna benefit us all. It already has. So please come back and tell us about your progress.

2 (2h 20m 20s):
Absolutely. In

0 (2h 20m 21s):
Six months, a year, whenever the the time is right, we'll have you back. And once again, thanks for doing everything you do. You're in this time of hearing so much negative news and like thinking like science is so, you know, hobbled and all this stuff. I science needs support obviously. Yeah, but you know, what's that saying? You see on the internet, you know, not all superheroes wear capes. You're, you're doing god's work. So thank you.

2 (2h 20m 43s):
Thank you so much. Thank you.

0 (2h 20m 44s):
Thank you for joining me for today's discussion with Dr. Sergio Paska. To learn more about his work, please see the links in the show note captions. If you're learning from and or enjoying this podcast, please subscribe to our YouTube channel. That's a terrific zero cost way to support us. In addition, please follow the podcast by clicking the follow button on both Spotify and Apple and on both Spotify and Apple. You can leave us up to a five star review and you can now leave us comments at both Spotify and Apple. Please also check out the Sponsors mentioned at the beginning and throughout today's episode. That's the best way to support this podcast. If you have questions for me or comments about the podcast or guests or topics that you'd like me to consider for the Huberman Lab podcast, please put those in the comment section on YouTube.

0 (2h 21m 25s):
I do read all the comments for those of you that haven't heard, I have a new book coming out. It's my very first book. It's entitled Protocols and Operating Manual for the Human Body. This is a book that I've been working on for more than five years, and that's based on more than 30 years of research and experience. And it covers protocols for everything from sleep to exercise to stress control protocols related to focus and motivation. And of course, I provide the scientific substantiation for the protocols that are included. The book is now available by presale at Protocols Book dot com. There you can find links to various vendors. You can pick the one that you like best. Again, the book is called Protocols and Operating Manual for the Human Body.

0 (2h 22m 6s):
And if you're not already following me on Social Media, I am Huberman Lab on all Social Media platforms. So that's Instagram X Threads, Facebook and LinkedIn. And on all those platforms, I discuss science and science related tools, some of which overlaps with the content of the Huberman Lab podcast, but much of which is distinct from the information on the Huberman Lab podcast. Again, it's Huberman Lab on all Social Media platforms. And if you haven't already subscribed to our Neural Network Newsletter, the Neural Network Newsletter is a zero cost monthly newsletter. That includes podcast summaries as well as what we call protocols in the form of one to three page PDFs that cover everything from how to optimize your sleep, how to optimize dopamine, deliberate cold exposure. We have a foundational fitness protocol that covers cardiovascular training and resistance training.

0 (2h 22m 50s):
All of that is available completely zero cost. You simply go to Huberman Lab dot com, go to the menu tab in the top right corner, scroll down to newsletter and enter your email. And I should emphasize that we do not share your email with anybody. Thank you once again for joining me for today's discussion with Dr. Sergio Paska. And last but certainly not least, thank you for your interest in science.